Wall Street's slide fails to dent FTSE An opening slide on Wall Street has failed to curb enthusiasm in London, despite increasing jitters in Asia that the Chinese stock market is heading into bubble territory. US economic data showing that orders for durable goods, excluding cars and planes, rose 1.1% in June, a better performance that the number-crunchers had been expecting, helped Wall Street reverse an opening slide. An hour after the opening the Dow Jones is down about 25.24 points at 9071.40 with the FTSE 100 index up 38.08 points at 4566.92 points. Both indices seem to have shrugged aside increasing worries in Asia that a stockmarket bubble is forming in China, as evidenced by the spectacular arrival of China State Construction Engineering Corp on the Shanghai exchange overnight. Shares in China's largest IPO since Petro China in 2007 rose more than 50% on their debut. It is the country's biggest housebuilder and has benefitted from the government's policy of encouraging a boom in infrastructure investment by leaning on the country's banks to increase lending. Economists are worried about where this money is going - some of it seems to be finding its way into speculative investments - and its ultimately destabilising effect on the Chinese economy and hence the rest of the world. As a result of the jitters, indices across Asia closed lower overnight. Announcing a 20% drop in first half profits and plans to axe its interim dividend, Rexam explained: The Rights Issue will enable the Group to put in place a more conservative and resilient long term capital structure and significantly enhances the prospect of maintaining the Group's current investment grade credit rating. The issue will also put Rexam in a strong position from which to grow when markets recover. Since the Interim Management Statement in May it has become increasingly clear that the effect of the recession on Rexam's trading will be deeper and more prolonged than previously thought with cyclical, more premium parts of the business disproportionately impacted by the downturn. Destocking has given way to reduced underlying customer demand reducing the Group's ability to generate cash and pay down debt. The company wants to get its £2.1bn of debt under control. It has £3.2bn worth of loans and overdrafts and refinanced £1.3bn in the half year. It has already managed to secure another £453m of "bilateral facilities" to underpin its access to liquidity and renegotiated a substantial portion of its £775m revolving credit facility as well as several facilities which were due to mature in 2010. The cost of all this debt, however, has gone up. The group's next major round of refinancing will be in relation to the £495m committed bank facilities due in 2011, followed by a further £904m of bank facilities due in 2012 with £1.062bn, comprising the €700m bond, the US bond and US private placement, due in 2013. The rights issue price of 150p represents a 45.7% discount to yesterday's closing price. We believe consensus (20% below our numbers) underestimates the earnings upside risk from a strong rebound in high-margin retail flows. The price might make a bit of sense if the figure should actually be read in rupees as that would work out at about £30m but sources close to the company branded the report as rubbish. The stock is up 2.75p at 14p. Reckitt misses out as FTSE jumps more than 100 points The licence expires on 8 October, and analysts believe the company is likely to see generic competition for the products - which account for some 12% of group profits - almost immediately. Credit Suisse, while still positive on the company overall, pointed out the potential effect. The bank said: "Such a large and growing profit pool will not have gone unnoticed - generic companies already have clearance on the active ingredient in Suboxone. Does Reckitt have a 'silver bullet'? We think not. Generic competition we feel sure is both inevitable and likely to be pretty much immediate. We see little that Reckitt can do to offset this - its slow-release technology won't get clearance for three to four years, while brands count for very little (virtually nothing) in this field. [Reckitt's] 2009 results may be impacted by the exact date that generics go live (a one week delay worth £5m to earnings), but it seems inevitable that generics will be in full force by the year end. Thus 2010 forecasts should include the full impact we believe." This 2.57% increase was the best one day performance for the leading index since 24 April and the first time since the end of May that it has been in positive territory three days in a row. Investors took heart from this week's bumper figures from Goldman Sachs and better than expected results from Intel, as well as reasonable US manufacturing and inflation numbers. Even another jump in UK unemployment could not dampen the positive mood, with analysts pointing out that the number of benefit claims grew by less than forecast. Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said: "The FTSE has had a very positive move higher today, catching quite a few people by surprise in the process and often such moves can be compounded by a sudden rush of investors jumping on board to get in while they can and not miss out on any big move higher. "The rally has been broad based with all sectors benefiting and on some pretty solid volumes too. The rate of unemployment in the UK may have risen higher than expected, making for a grim headline figure, however the rise in claimants was the smallest for a year, which investors took as further indication that the worst is over. "The test for the FTSE will be the resistance seen around 4350-4400 and whilst today's rally is encouraging, [can] the FTSE carry on higher to take out 4500? There's little evidence to show that it can, considering how it has attempted that many times through May and June." "The Ghanaian government has at last given formal approval to the Jubilee Phase 1 Development project following the announcement yesterday from Kosmos [a partner in the field] that it had secured loans to fund its share of development. This is a case of the paperwork catching up with the engineers as the project has been in construction for some time. "The Jubilee field straddles both the Deepwater Tano and West Cape Three Points license blocks offshore Ghana and as result the initial unitisation sees Tullow getting 34.7% of the field but with the potential for stake to change as the field comes on stream and more data becomes available. The 34.7% is slightly below the 37% we had anticipated so, in theory, our fair value for Tullow should reduce by around 25p. As we have a target price of 1200p and the shares are currently trading at [around] 891p it's a trifle academic at this stage especially as the un-risked upside of Tullow's portfolio is substantially higher than our risked fair value target of 1200p."Wall Street's slide fails to dent FTSE An opening slide on Wall Street has failed to curb enthusiasm in London, despite increasing jitters in Asia that the Chinese stock market is heading into bubble territory. US economic data showing that orders for durable goods, excluding cars and planes, rose 1.1% in June, a better performance that the number-crunchers had been expecting, helped Wall Street reverse an opening slide. An hour after the opening the Dow Jones is down about 25.24 points at 9071.40 with the FTSE 100 index up 38.08 points at 4566.92 points. Both indices seem to have shrugged aside increasing worries in Asia that a stockmarket bubble is forming in China, as evidenced by the spectacular arrival of China State Construction Engineering Corp on the Shanghai exchange overnight. Shares in China's largest IPO since Petro China in 2007 rose more than 50% on their debut. It is the country's biggest housebuilder and has benefitted from the government's policy of encouraging a boom in infrastructure investment by leaning on the country's banks to increase lending. Economists are worried about where this money is going - some of it seems to be finding its way into speculative investments - and its ultimately destabilising effect on the Chinese economy and hence the rest of the world. As a result of the jitters, indices across Asia closed lower overnight. Announcing a 20% drop in first half profits and plans to axe its interim dividend, Rexam explained: The Rights Issue will enable the Group to put in place a more conservative and resilient long term capital structure and significantly enhances the prospect of maintaining the Group's current investment grade credit rating. The issue will also put Rexam in a strong position from which to grow when markets recover. Since the Interim Management Statement in May it has become increasingly clear that the effect of the recession on Rexam's trading will be deeper and more prolonged than previously thought with cyclical, more premium parts of the business disproportionately impacted by the downturn. Destocking has given way to reduced underlying customer demand reducing the Group's ability to generate cash and pay down debt. The company wants to get its £2.1bn of debt under control. It has £3.2bn worth of loans and overdrafts and refinanced £1.3bn in the half year. It has already managed to secure another £453m of "bilateral facilities" to underpin its access to liquidity and renegotiated a substantial portion of its £775m revolving credit facility as well as several facilities which were due to mature in 2010. The cost of all this debt, however, has gone up. The group's next major round of refinancing will be in relation to the £495m committed bank facilities due in 2011, followed by a further £904m of bank facilities due in 2012 with £1.062bn, comprising the €700m bond, the US bond and US private placement, due in 2013. The rights issue price of 150p represents a 45.7% discount to yesterday's closing price. We believe consensus (20% below our numbers) underestimates the earnings upside risk from a strong rebound in high-margin retail flows. The price might make a bit of sense if the figure should actually be read in rupees as that would work out at about £30m but sources close to the company branded the report as rubbish. The stock is up 2.75p at 14p. Reckitt misses out as FTSE jumps more than 100 points The licence expires on 8 October, and analysts believe the company is likely to see generic competition for the products - which account for some 12% of group profits - almost immediately. Credit Suisse, while still positive on the company overall, pointed out the potential effect. The bank said: "Such a large and growing profit pool will not have gone unnoticed - generic companies already have clearance on the active ingredient in Suboxone. Does Reckitt have a 'silver bullet'? We think not. Generic competition we feel sure is both inevitable and likely to be pretty much immediate. We see little that Reckitt can do to offset this - its slow-release technology won't get clearance for three to four years, while brands count for very little (virtually nothing) in this field. [Reckitt's] 2009 results may be impacted by the exact date that generics go live (a one week delay worth £5m to earnings), but it seems inevitable that generics will be in full force by the year end. Thus 2010 forecasts should include the full impact we believe." This 2.57% increase was the best one day performance for the leading index since 24 April and the first time since the end of May that it has been in positive territory three days in a row. Investors took heart from this week's bumper figures from Goldman Sachs and better than expected results from Intel, as well as reasonable US manufacturing and inflation numbers. Even another jump in UK unemployment could not dampen the positive mood, with analysts pointing out that the number of benefit claims grew by less than forecast. Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said: "The FTSE has had a very positive move higher today, catching quite a few people by surprise in the process and often such moves can be compounded by a sudden rush of investors jumping on board to get in while they can and not miss out on any big move higher. "The rally has been broad based with all sectors benefiting and on some pretty solid volumes too. The rate of unemployment in the UK may have risen higher than expected, making for a grim headline figure, however the rise in claimants was the smallest for a year, which investors took as further indication that the worst is over. "The test for the FTSE will be the resistance seen around 4350-4400 and whilst today's rally is encouraging, [can] the FTSE carry on higher to take out 4500? There's little evidence to show that it can, considering how it has attempted that many times through May and June." "The Ghanaian government has at last given formal approval to the Jubilee Phase 1 Development project following the announcement yesterday from Kosmos [a partner in the field] that it had secured loans to fund its share of development. This is a case of the paperwork catching up with the engineers as the project has been in construction for some time. "The Jubilee field straddles both the Deepwater Tano and West Cape Three Points license blocks offshore Ghana and as result the initial unitisation sees Tullow getting 34.7% of the field but with the potential for stake to change as the field comes on stream and more data becomes available. The 34.7% is slightly below the 37% we had anticipated so, in theory, our fair value for Tullow should reduce by around 25p. As we have a target price of 1200p and the shares are currently trading at [around] 891p it's a trifle academic at this stage especially as the un-risked upside of Tullow's portfolio is substantially higher than our risked fair value target of 1200p."