Deutsche Bank says Tory victory best for UK stock market Well here's a surprise. Or possibly not. The City thinks a Conservative victory in the forthcoming election would be the best outcome for the stock market. The best result for UK equities is likely to be an outright victory for the Conservative party. Although an outright Labour victory would help create certainty, the lack of urgency in their deficit reduction plans may be negative for gilt yields and may alert the rating agencies. But he adds a caveat: If gilt yields aren't negatively impacted by a Labour victory then their 'spending for longer' policy may actually be better for markets than a Conservative administration committed to fiscal cut-backs. Ironically mild sovereign concerns are also positive for UK equities. Around 65% of FTSE 100 revenues come from overseas and therefore benefit from currency weakness. Clearly there is a fine line here and the risk is that sovereign weakness eventually hits gilt yields. So arguably the most important thing to watch in the days, weeks and months ahead is how gilt yields respond to the new administration. If they can retain the confidence of the gilt market then we can have a more optimistic path ahead than if they lose such confidence. On a hung parliament, Deutsche says: As for a Conservative majority: And finally, if Labour manage to buck the polls and hold on to power: Some of the companies exposed to spending cuts that may have underperformed in anticipation of a Conservative win may see a relief rally (mainly smaller companies). However, the problem of government finances remains and there is no guarantee that the risk of a sovereign downgrade would be averted. A continuation of the current loose policy framework is likely to be inflationary and bearish for gilts. We may see better performances from IT services, aerospace and the housebuilders (top pick Barratt) if Labour retain a majority. Barclays executive nets £9m in shares payout Although not on Barclays' board, Ricci's dealings have been disclosed because he is deemed to be a "person discharging managerial responsibility" after joining the executive committee in November 2009. It is difficult to ascertain how many shares he continues to hold as the bank is not required to provide such information.Deutsche Bank says Tory victory best for UK stock market Well here's a surprise. Or possibly not. The City thinks a Conservative victory in the forthcoming election would be the best outcome for the stock market. The best result for UK equities is likely to be an outright victory for the Conservative party. Although an outright Labour victory would help create certainty, the lack of urgency in their deficit reduction plans may be negative for gilt yields and may alert the rating agencies. But he adds a caveat: If gilt yields aren't negatively impacted by a Labour victory then their 'spending for longer' policy may actually be better for markets than a Conservative administration committed to fiscal cut-backs. Ironically mild sovereign concerns are also positive for UK equities. Around 65% of FTSE 100 revenues come from overseas and therefore benefit from currency weakness. Clearly there is a fine line here and the risk is that sovereign weakness eventually hits gilt yields. So arguably the most important thing to watch in the days, weeks and months ahead is how gilt yields respond to the new administration. If they can retain the confidence of the gilt market then we can have a more optimistic path ahead than if they lose such confidence. On a hung parliament, Deutsche says: As for a Conservative majority: And finally, if Labour manage to buck the polls and hold on to power: Some of the companies exposed to spending cuts that may have underperformed in anticipation of a Conservative win may see a relief rally (mainly smaller companies). However, the problem of government finances remains and there is no guarantee that the risk of a sovereign downgrade would be averted. A continuation of the current loose policy framework is likely to be inflationary and bearish for gilts. We may see better performances from IT services, aerospace and the housebuilders (top pick Barratt) if Labour retain a majority. Barclays executive nets £9m in shares payout Although not on Barclays' board, Ricci's dealings have been disclosed because he is deemed to be a "person discharging managerial responsibility" after joining the executive committee in November 2009. It is difficult to ascertain how many shares he continues to hold as the bank is not required to provide such information.