Talk of Börse bid for London Stock Exchange grips City LSE shares soared 52.5p to 860.5p on the story –a more likely reason for the rise than the earlier news that it had paid $30m (£18m) for a Sri Lanka-based technology company. Neither the LSE nor Deutsche Börse would comment but it would be a remarkable turn of events. LSE's former boss Clara Furse saw off a host of predators, including the German stock exchange and Nasdaq, but recently stepped down to be replaced by Frenchman Xavier Rolet. The LSE faces increasing competition but there have been very few suggestions in the City that the answer to its problems would be a new link-up with the Germans. Stagecoach's UK bus business was in focus yesterday, with Morgan Stanley analysts raising full-year earning forecasts for 2011 and 2012 by 40% on prospects for that division. Stagecoach accelerated 11.1p to 170.2p, while National Express rose 0.4p to 476.5p. Just Retirement retires from market in £225m deal The company has agreed to a 76p a share bid from Avalon Acquisitions, a vehicle backed by private equity group Permira. The deal values the company, which sells investment products to people approaching retirement, at £225.5m. Just Retirement's shares have added 5p to 74.5p. Panmure Gordon described the move as a "sad end for investors" and suggested the bid was a low ball one. Analyst Barrie Cornes said: After over a year in discussions, Just Retirement have finally announced a recommended offer for the company at 76p a share in cash. Although the deal will almost certainly go through, we view it as disappointing. The year end results announced today [operating profits up 25%] reinforce our view that the business is in good shape.Talk of Börse bid for London Stock Exchange grips City LSE shares soared 52.5p to 860.5p on the story –a more likely reason for the rise than the earlier news that it had paid $30m (£18m) for a Sri Lanka-based technology company. Neither the LSE nor Deutsche Börse would comment but it would be a remarkable turn of events. LSE's former boss Clara Furse saw off a host of predators, including the German stock exchange and Nasdaq, but recently stepped down to be replaced by Frenchman Xavier Rolet. The LSE faces increasing competition but there have been very few suggestions in the City that the answer to its problems would be a new link-up with the Germans. Stagecoach's UK bus business was in focus yesterday, with Morgan Stanley analysts raising full-year earning forecasts for 2011 and 2012 by 40% on prospects for that division. Stagecoach accelerated 11.1p to 170.2p, while National Express rose 0.4p to 476.5p. Just Retirement retires from market in £225m deal The company has agreed to a 76p a share bid from Avalon Acquisitions, a vehicle backed by private equity group Permira. The deal values the company, which sells investment products to people approaching retirement, at £225.5m. Just Retirement's shares have added 5p to 74.5p. Panmure Gordon described the move as a "sad end for investors" and suggested the bid was a low ball one. Analyst Barrie Cornes said: After over a year in discussions, Just Retirement have finally announced a recommended offer for the company at 76p a share in cash. Although the deal will almost certainly go through, we view it as disappointing. The year end results announced today [operating profits up 25%] reinforce our view that the business is in good shape.