Pirate Bay bidder kicked off Swedish stock market The move comes amid claims that Global Gaming Factory X took a "casual" approach to financial disclosures surrounding the bid, which it launched in June. The deal appears to have come crashing down, however, after questions were raised about how Global Gaming - which made around £500,000 last year - intended to pay for the acquisition. Following an investigation by Stockholm-based AktieTorget - the equity market on which GGF trades its shares - officials announced yesterday that the company would be permanently barring from doing business on the exchange. The statement said that Global Gaming had "seriously violated" the exchange's rules by failing to ensure that information it provided to investors was "accurate, relevant and reliable". "They give a systematic impression of a lack of accountability and of an almost casual and unsuspecting approach to disclosure requirements." Concerns about GGF's actions had spread almost as soon as the company announced its plans earlier this year, and Gunther Marder, head of the Swedish Shareholders' Assocation, said "everything seemed shady from the start". "It is impossible to say what has been true and what has been a lie," he told the Associated Press. "This entire affair has been lined with clumsy statements and doubtful claims." Last week AktieTorget had suspended GGF's shares, with senior officials suggesting that the company had failed to produce any evidence that it had the funds, or agreements with investors to provide the required cash. Market rally is not over yet, says Morgan Stanley After August's stock market rally and last week's subsequent dip, investors have been concerned that shares may have run ahead of themselves and lost touch with economic reality. Draaisma and his team have not turned into all-out bulls, but they are positive about the immediate future, although they admit there are concerns: "There are plenty of things to worry about. Near-term, investors are worried that the rally has gone too far too fast. They worry that there are some important signs of deteriorating conditions, such as lower bond yields, higher VIX [volatility index], the 44% fall in the Baltic Dry Index, the 23% fall in the Chinese stock market, the first global rate hike (Israel on 24 August), the nearing end to quantitative easing, and the end of the cash-for-clunkers programme. "Medium-term, investors are worried about the poor state of government finances, deleveraging of households and the financial sector. We very much share these medium-term concerns, but we are less worried about the next 3-6 months. "Economic news has been impressive, recently. US housing data show signs of stabilization, with inventories of unsold homes having fallen to about 8 months. Manufacturing surveys have risen further. Importantly, central bankers tell us that they do not intend to hike rates anytime soon, and Ben Bernanke has been reappointed for another term, ensuring continuity. We would start to get more nervous about equity market direction if and when policymakers feel confident enough to embark on fiscal or monetary tightening, but that is not the case yet. "On a 3-6 month view, we continue to have a positive bias on equities, and prefer equities over government bonds, as we have done ever since we became more optimistic in July. We think the rebound rally has further to go, still." And after that? "We think the next market phase will be a correction, coinciding with the start of monetary or fiscal tightening. At some point an upside growth surprise will lead to fiscal or monetary tightening, which in turn will lead to dislocation. Our analysis of historical secular bear markets is consistent with this. "The challenge will be to identify what constitutes the start of tightening. It could be a variety of things, including: an oil price spike, an inflation spike, a tax hike (such as the VAT rate hike in Japan in 1997), a more stringent capital requirement for banks (such as what happened in the US in 1936), or simply the first Fed rate hike (which is most often the signal)." RSA drops on cash call talk, as FTSE rally fades The insurer fell 6.2p to 124.4p, a near 5% decline, as investors took fright at the prospect of a reported £600m rights issue, supposedly to boost its balance sheet and give it firepower for acquisitions. Traders said they would be surprised at such a move unless there was a deal in the offing, since RSA recently raised its dividend and bought back some of its debt. "It's been a see-saw sort of session as many traders returned to their trading screens and tried to make sense of the substantial rally many of them may have missed in the last couple of months. That said, volumes remained light and may well do so into next week as the UK's bank holiday yesterday is followed by a US holiday next Monday. "The overriding concern of this recent rally has been its lack of volume and today may have marked the first round of sustained profit taking. In the back of many investors' minds is the concern that September is usually a poor month for equities and we haven't got the month off to the best of starts. UK manufacturing data showed a contraction in the sector in August when the market was expecting an expansion and on top of this Credit Suisse advised their clients to reduce their exposure to equities in both the UK and US." "We expect the data to result in modest upgrades but refrain from classifying the event as transforming. Efficacy was good, which should ensure registration but there enough points of interest regarding safety and trial design to provide ammunition to the bears to question the drug's commercial potential." Goldman Sachs also sounded a note of caution, despite increasing its forecasts: "We are raising our brilinta peak sales forecast to $2.2bn in 2015 (from $1.1 bn) reflecting the powerful study data. As a result, we raise our 2012-15 earnings per share estimates 1% to 10% and our 12-month price target to £30 (from £28); we retain our neutral rating. "Although [the trial] was a strong, positive [one], we note that only 10% of patients in the trial were recruited from north America, and that these patients appeared to have had a worse outcome than the trial cohort as a whole, we expect this observation to face close FDA regulatory scrutiny and, assuming brilinta faces an advisory committee at some point, will be a key issue for debate."Pirate Bay bidder kicked off Swedish stock market The move comes amid claims that Global Gaming Factory X took a "casual" approach to financial disclosures surrounding the bid, which it launched in June. The deal appears to have come crashing down, however, after questions were raised about how Global Gaming - which made around £500,000 last year - intended to pay for the acquisition. Following an investigation by Stockholm-based AktieTorget - the equity market on which GGF trades its shares - officials announced yesterday that the company would be permanently barring from doing business on the exchange. The statement said that Global Gaming had "seriously violated" the exchange's rules by failing to ensure that information it provided to investors was "accurate, relevant and reliable". "They give a systematic impression of a lack of accountability and of an almost casual and unsuspecting approach to disclosure requirements." Concerns about GGF's actions had spread almost as soon as the company announced its plans earlier this year, and Gunther Marder, head of the Swedish Shareholders' Assocation, said "everything seemed shady from the start". "It is impossible to say what has been true and what has been a lie," he told the Associated Press. "This entire affair has been lined with clumsy statements and doubtful claims." Last week AktieTorget had suspended GGF's shares, with senior officials suggesting that the company had failed to produce any evidence that it had the funds, or agreements with investors to provide the required cash. Market rally is not over yet, says Morgan Stanley After August's stock market rally and last week's subsequent dip, investors have been concerned that shares may have run ahead of themselves and lost touch with economic reality. Draaisma and his team have not turned into all-out bulls, but they are positive about the immediate future, although they admit there are concerns: "There are plenty of things to worry about. Near-term, investors are worried that the rally has gone too far too fast. They worry that there are some important signs of deteriorating conditions, such as lower bond yields, higher VIX [volatility index], the 44% fall in the Baltic Dry Index, the 23% fall in the Chinese stock market, the first global rate hike (Israel on 24 August), the nearing end to quantitative easing, and the end of the cash-for-clunkers programme. "Medium-term, investors are worried about the poor state of government finances, deleveraging of households and the financial sector. We very much share these medium-term concerns, but we are less worried about the next 3-6 months. "Economic news has been impressive, recently. US housing data show signs of stabilization, with inventories of unsold homes having fallen to about 8 months. Manufacturing surveys have risen further. Importantly, central bankers tell us that they do not intend to hike rates anytime soon, and Ben Bernanke has been reappointed for another term, ensuring continuity. We would start to get more nervous about equity market direction if and when policymakers feel confident enough to embark on fiscal or monetary tightening, but that is not the case yet. "On a 3-6 month view, we continue to have a positive bias on equities, and prefer equities over government bonds, as we have done ever since we became more optimistic in July. We think the rebound rally has further to go, still." And after that? "We think the next market phase will be a correction, coinciding with the start of monetary or fiscal tightening. At some point an upside growth surprise will lead to fiscal or monetary tightening, which in turn will lead to dislocation. Our analysis of historical secular bear markets is consistent with this. "The challenge will be to identify what constitutes the start of tightening. It could be a variety of things, including: an oil price spike, an inflation spike, a tax hike (such as the VAT rate hike in Japan in 1997), a more stringent capital requirement for banks (such as what happened in the US in 1936), or simply the first Fed rate hike (which is most often the signal)." RSA drops on cash call talk, as FTSE rally fades The insurer fell 6.2p to 124.4p, a near 5% decline, as investors took fright at the prospect of a reported £600m rights issue, supposedly to boost its balance sheet and give it firepower for acquisitions. Traders said they would be surprised at such a move unless there was a deal in the offing, since RSA recently raised its dividend and bought back some of its debt. "It's been a see-saw sort of session as many traders returned to their trading screens and tried to make sense of the substantial rally many of them may have missed in the last couple of months. That said, volumes remained light and may well do so into next week as the UK's bank holiday yesterday is followed by a US holiday next Monday. "The overriding concern of this recent rally has been its lack of volume and today may have marked the first round of sustained profit taking. In the back of many investors' minds is the concern that September is usually a poor month for equities and we haven't got the month off to the best of starts. UK manufacturing data showed a contraction in the sector in August when the market was expecting an expansion and on top of this Credit Suisse advised their clients to reduce their exposure to equities in both the UK and US." "We expect the data to result in modest upgrades but refrain from classifying the event as transforming. Efficacy was good, which should ensure registration but there enough points of interest regarding safety and trial design to provide ammunition to the bears to question the drug's commercial potential." Goldman Sachs also sounded a note of caution, despite increasing its forecasts: "We are raising our brilinta peak sales forecast to $2.2bn in 2015 (from $1.1 bn) reflecting the powerful study data. As a result, we raise our 2012-15 earnings per share estimates 1% to 10% and our 12-month price target to £30 (from £28); we retain our neutral rating. "Although [the trial] was a strong, positive [one], we note that only 10% of patients in the trial were recruited from north America, and that these patients appeared to have had a worse outcome than the trial cohort as a whole, we expect this observation to face close FDA regulatory scrutiny and, assuming brilinta faces an advisory committee at some point, will be a key issue for debate."