Falkland Islands drilling disappoints for Desire The prospect of a new oil boom off the coast of the Falklands Islands has been dealt a heavy blow after the first well yielded disappointing results. Desire Petroleum told the stock market this morning that exploratory drilling beneath the seabed surrounding the South Atlantic territory had found oil deposits, but warned that early evidence suggests they may not be commercially viable. The bad news sent its shares tumbling more than 50%, and hit other companies in the sector. Desire was the first company to put Ocean Guardian to use. It dug more than 3,500 metres, and hit hydrocarbon deposits around 2,550 metres. However, early analysis showed "that oil may be present in thin intervals but that reservoir quality is poor". It warned that until it has analysed the data further it will not know whether the well needs to be "drilled deeper, suspended for testing or plugged and abandoned". Shares in Desire plunged by nearly 60% when trading began, down 58p at 41p. Rockhopper Exploration, which owned 7% of Desire's well, tumbled 35%. Desire is expected to announce further results from the well, called Liz 14/19-1, later this week. Alan Sinclair, analyst at stockbrokers Seymour Pierce, argued that all may not be lost. "On balance, whilst the market may have been looking for seagull-scorching test results from Liz, it should be borne in mind that this is the first of a potential six-well programme by Desire. It is encouraging that initial indications suggest that potentially all the ingredients – reservoir, trap and hydrocarbons – are present in the general area," he wrote in a research note.Falkland Islands drilling disappoints for Desire The prospect of a new oil boom off the coast of the Falklands Islands has been dealt a heavy blow after the first well yielded disappointing results. Desire Petroleum told the stock market this morning that exploratory drilling beneath the seabed surrounding the South Atlantic territory had found oil deposits, but warned that early evidence suggests they may not be commercially viable. The bad news sent its shares tumbling more than 50%, and hit other companies in the sector. Desire was the first company to put Ocean Guardian to use. It dug more than 3,500 metres, and hit hydrocarbon deposits around 2,550 metres. However, early analysis showed "that oil may be present in thin intervals but that reservoir quality is poor". It warned that until it has analysed the data further it will not know whether the well needs to be "drilled deeper, suspended for testing or plugged and abandoned". Shares in Desire plunged by nearly 60% when trading began, down 58p at 41p. Rockhopper Exploration, which owned 7% of Desire's well, tumbled 35%. Desire is expected to announce further results from the well, called Liz 14/19-1, later this week. Alan Sinclair, analyst at stockbrokers Seymour Pierce, argued that all may not be lost. "On balance, whilst the market may have been looking for seagull-scorching test results from Liz, it should be borne in mind that this is the first of a potential six-well programme by Desire. It is encouraging that initial indications suggest that potentially all the ingredients – reservoir, trap and hydrocarbons – are present in the general area," he wrote in a research note.