Companies gambling on stock market bounce to avoid closing pension deficits Hundreds of Britain's biggest companies have gambled on a strong bounce in the stock market and a surge in profits to avoid closing funding gaps this year in their pension schemes. The pensions regulator said today that many of the 7,200 firms with final salary schemes were delaying making payments for several years after they included predictions of rising asset prices in calculations to determine how much money they set aside for pension funds. Companies also justified delaying payments to their funds after they agreed with the regulator that top-up funds would be more affordable in the future when profits were higher. The regulator said it was monitoring recovery plans following concerns that agreements made before the recession were overly optimistic. The report by the regulator is likely to spark further debate over the funding problems faced by Britain's final salary pension schemes. In his last report the regulator said the collective deficit of all funds was around £200bn. Rises in life expectancy, low interest rates and predictions of possible increases in inflation are expected to increase funding costs and widen the shortfall in many schemes. The value of some companies, including British Airways, is already smaller than the pension scheme they are obliged to fund. Small changes in pension liabilities can add hundreds of millions of pounds to funding costs. Earlier this year the regulator signalled he would take a hard line against employers that sought to delay payments in order to drive up profits and pay dividends to shareholders. But in recent months he has taken a softer line and agreed several recovery plans that extend payments beyond a standard 10-year target. David Norgrove, the chairman of the pensions regulator, said schemes were divided into three groups depending on when they made their funding predictions. He said deals with the regulator made several years ago would need to be watched closely. "The three tranches of scheme valuations have been conducted in very different economic circumstances and this analysis explores some of the effects that the downturn, and other factors such as longevity improvements, have had on scheme funding," he said. "We urge trustees to continue to take a prudent approach to assessing schemes' technical provisions, to maintain an honest and open dialogue with employers, and to remain aware of the changing economic situation as they focus on the long-term interests of scheme members. The regulator will continue to focus on this shared goal." Employers are expected to suffer a dramatic rise in pension costs this year after a fall in bond yields used to calculate occupational scheme funding positions. Pension experts report an acceleration of scheme closures in recent months as finance directors seek to offset escalating costs by minimising the number of people eligible for generous pensions.Companies gambling on stock market bounce to avoid closing pension deficits Hundreds of Britain's biggest companies have gambled on a strong bounce in the stock market and a surge in profits to avoid closing funding gaps this year in their pension schemes. The pensions regulator said today that many of the 7,200 firms with final salary schemes were delaying making payments for several years after they included predictions of rising asset prices in calculations to determine how much money they set aside for pension funds. Companies also justified delaying payments to their funds after they agreed with the regulator that top-up funds would be more affordable in the future when profits were higher. The regulator said it was monitoring recovery plans following concerns that agreements made before the recession were overly optimistic. The report by the regulator is likely to spark further debate over the funding problems faced by Britain's final salary pension schemes. In his last report the regulator said the collective deficit of all funds was around £200bn. Rises in life expectancy, low interest rates and predictions of possible increases in inflation are expected to increase funding costs and widen the shortfall in many schemes. The value of some companies, including British Airways, is already smaller than the pension scheme they are obliged to fund. Small changes in pension liabilities can add hundreds of millions of pounds to funding costs. Earlier this year the regulator signalled he would take a hard line against employers that sought to delay payments in order to drive up profits and pay dividends to shareholders. But in recent months he has taken a softer line and agreed several recovery plans that extend payments beyond a standard 10-year target. David Norgrove, the chairman of the pensions regulator, said schemes were divided into three groups depending on when they made their funding predictions. He said deals with the regulator made several years ago would need to be watched closely. "The three tranches of scheme valuations have been conducted in very different economic circumstances and this analysis explores some of the effects that the downturn, and other factors such as longevity improvements, have had on scheme funding," he said. "We urge trustees to continue to take a prudent approach to assessing schemes' technical provisions, to maintain an honest and open dialogue with employers, and to remain aware of the changing economic situation as they focus on the long-term interests of scheme members. The regulator will continue to focus on this shared goal." Employers are expected to suffer a dramatic rise in pension costs this year after a fall in bond yields used to calculate occupational scheme funding positions. Pension experts report an acceleration of scheme closures in recent months as finance directors seek to offset escalating costs by minimising the number of people eligible for generous pensions.