Should we fear a stock market bubble? "I think we are far away from being in a bubble with the UK stock market reasonably priced. It is slap bang in the middle of its historic price-to-earnings range so looks pretty good value to me. When I look at the stock market and compare it to the rates on bank deposit accounts, the alternatives do not look very attractive. The biggest risk is a double dip in the economy, but my view is that it is stabilising. With my personal investments I am happy with equities and if anything am looking to add to them." "You have to be a bit careful in late December and the new year because you tend to get a false market. We have seen the Christmas rally that you often get, so will not get a true idea of the market until the second week of January. "Most of the markets have had a strong run in 2009. A lot of that has been from the government stimulus that is being slowly withdrawn. So I would not jump on board anything, but if you look at pharmaceuticals, telecoms and defence they are undervalued and look quite good. "They have not bounced back nearly as much as other stocks and have really good yields that look safe. Next year could be hard and the stocks that perform well could be different from this year. You want stocks that are visibly earning and not economically sensitive, companies with organic growth and some kind of niche that will trade through difficult conditions." "If you read stockbroker reports many people are worried that 2010 will be a harder year to generate consistent returns... A lot of people have written off the UK market as it is not China or Brazil, but it is international in composition. The recovery in the global economy is going to throw up some pockets of growth. It is important to take a long-term view and we are focusing on those with quality growth rather than the cheapest stocks in the market. Those in more cyclical areas, that have been the driving force of the rally, will find 2010 a more difficult year." "Looking at the ratings in terms of equity yields they are low when compared to the yields from regular interest rates. If you had £1m in the bank it would be doing nothing. There is no reason why we will not see a rise in the FTSE to 6000 at some point next year. If you look at the figures from December 1997 then you see we are at roughly the same point as 12 years ago. People forget how little it has moved in the last 12 years. "The market sometimes moves upward at the end of the year with people putting cash in, but the economic trends are broadly positive. The economy is entering a recovery phase with house prices up and revised economic growth figures. The rating of the market is roughly in line with long-term averages. If you look at the hard data, things are clearly looking upwards." "We are still well below where we were 10 years ago in the stock market. You really know when you are in a bubble when people are sitting around coffee talking about equities and how good they are, just like people were with property two or three years ago. It is not like that at the moment so that is a good indicator that we are not in a bubble. Equities are never safe in the short term because sentiment can drive the economy down, but in the long term equities offer relative value." "There has been a similar equity market in 2009 to that of 2003 and 2004, but we are now at an inflection point and we are likely to see the market act differently. It is important to look differently at the prospects of the UK economy and the UK stock market. The prospects for the economy remain difficult, but that does not necessarily mean that all UK listed companies will be affected."So far there has been little differentiation as stocks have risen on the tide up from the lows in the market, but now really consistent higher quality companies are beginning to outperform. These are companies with strong market positions and an ability to fund growth here and abroad moving forward. Stock market rally peters out The picture was mirrored on other stock markets across Europe. And earlier today Japan's Nikkei ended the year with a 0.86% drop, dragged down by fears that Japan Airlines may file for bankruptcy. Cameron Peacock, market analyst at IG Markets, predicted that "after yesterday's continued run gains for European equity markets - albeit in rather thin trading conditions - investors in London may well be inclined to start taking money off the table." Today is the City's last full trading session of 2009, and many traders having already closed their books for the year. On New Year's Eve the London market will only be open until 12.30pm. Chi-Med's eastern promise In one sense, Chi-Med has simply kept to its script. Its consumer healthcare business in China has continued to increase sales at a rate of 20%-plus a year. It has also signed a deal with US organics group Hain Celestial to distribute products such as milk powder. But the other half of Chi-Med – developing original drugs for a global market – is where the excitement lies. The tale in the next year or two could be a spin-off of MediPharma. If so, we should discover whether the analysts are right in thinking that Chi-Med, at £100m or so, is still grossly undervalued. The answer may well be "yes". HSBC opens door into China with £5bn flotation HSBC plans to become the first international company to list on the Shanghai stock exchange by launching a £5bn share offer to Chinese investors in a move that is rich in symbolism. The bank is already well capitalised and does not need the money from flotation, but HSBC is keen to raise its profile with Chinese retail investors as it expands its branch network and looks at buying stakes in rival Chinese banks. HSBC confirmed that it was planning to list in Shanghai, but declined to discuss details and timing. Mike Trippitt, an analyst at Oriel Securities, said: "It will be easier for HSBC to grow its operations in China if people there have a financial stake in the brand. This is all about HSBC raising its profile in a market that is crucial to its success." HSBC recently signalled its determination to expand in China and across Asia by moving Michael Geoghegan, its chief executive, from London to be based full-time in Hong Kong, where HSBC is already quoted. The bank was founded in Hong Kong and Shanghai in 1865, but shifted its headquarters to London in 1993 after acquiring the Midland Bank. Hong Kong and China accounted for 40% of HSBC's pretax profits last year and analysts predict this could reach 50% over the next decade. A disastrous foray into the US sub-prime market, where it has been forced to write off billions because of the credit crunch, has persuaded management to return to its roots in the Far East, say analysts. Beijing has let it be known that it is ready to start allowing foreign companies to list on the Chinese mainland, reflecting its ambitions to open up the country's financial sector and transform Shanghai into an international financial hub to rival London and New York. Lawyers in London say that the China Securities Regulatory Commission is expected to change its laws in January to allow foreign and non-mainland companies to list in Shanghai. But the Chinese will retain a cap of 20% on the proportion of equity foreign banks can acquire in Chinese financial companies. Simon Maughan, an analyst at MF Global, said: "You can't overestimate the importance of China. If the Chinese were to move towards more open capital markets, perhaps allowing foreign institutions to invest in Chinese government debt, HSBC would be better positioned than any other western bank because it already has such a big presence in Hong Kong. A listing in Shanghai would reinforce its position in the region." HSBC is already the biggest foreign bank in a country where the market potential is viewed as vast. "Currying favour with the Chinese is both sensible and necessary if you are serious about growing in a nation with 1.3 billion people," said Maughan. The British bank is poised to buy some of the Asian retail and commercial assets being divested by Royal Bank of Scotland. The two sides have struck a deal for the assets in China, India and Malaysia, but the transaction is subject to regulatory approval in the three countries.Should we fear a stock market bubble? "I think we are far away from being in a bubble with the UK stock market reasonably priced. It is slap bang in the middle of its historic price-to-earnings range so looks pretty good value to me. When I look at the stock market and compare it to the rates on bank deposit accounts, the alternatives do not look very attractive. The biggest risk is a double dip in the economy, but my view is that it is stabilising. With my personal investments I am happy with equities and if anything am looking to add to them." "You have to be a bit careful in late December and the new year because you tend to get a false market. We have seen the Christmas rally that you often get, so will not get a true idea of the market until the second week of January. "Most of the markets have had a strong run in 2009. A lot of that has been from the government stimulus that is being slowly withdrawn. So I would not jump on board anything, but if you look at pharmaceuticals, telecoms and defence they are undervalued and look quite good. "They have not bounced back nearly as much as other stocks and have really good yields that look safe. Next year could be hard and the stocks that perform well could be different from this year. You want stocks that are visibly earning and not economically sensitive, companies with organic growth and some kind of niche that will trade through difficult conditions." "If you read stockbroker reports many people are worried that 2010 will be a harder year to generate consistent returns... A lot of people have written off the UK market as it is not China or Brazil, but it is international in composition. The recovery in the global economy is going to throw up some pockets of growth. It is important to take a long-term view and we are focusing on those with quality growth rather than the cheapest stocks in the market. Those in more cyclical areas, that have been the driving force of the rally, will find 2010 a more difficult year." "Looking at the ratings in terms of equity yields they are low when compared to the yields from regular interest rates. If you had £1m in the bank it would be doing nothing. There is no reason why we will not see a rise in the FTSE to 6000 at some point next year. If you look at the figures from December 1997 then you see we are at roughly the same point as 12 years ago. People forget how little it has moved in the last 12 years. "The market sometimes moves upward at the end of the year with people putting cash in, but the economic trends are broadly positive. The economy is entering a recovery phase with house prices up and revised economic growth figures. The rating of the market is roughly in line with long-term averages. If you look at the hard data, things are clearly looking upwards." "We are still well below where we were 10 years ago in the stock market. You really know when you are in a bubble when people are sitting around coffee talking about equities and how good they are, just like people were with property two or three years ago. It is not like that at the moment so that is a good indicator that we are not in a bubble. Equities are never safe in the short term because sentiment can drive the economy down, but in the long term equities offer relative value." "There has been a similar equity market in 2009 to that of 2003 and 2004, but we are now at an inflection point and we are likely to see the market act differently. It is important to look differently at the prospects of the UK economy and the UK stock market. The prospects for the economy remain difficult, but that does not necessarily mean that all UK listed companies will be affected."So far there has been little differentiation as stocks have risen on the tide up from the lows in the market, but now really consistent higher quality companies are beginning to outperform. These are companies with strong market positions and an ability to fund growth here and abroad moving forward. Stock market rally peters out The picture was mirrored on other stock markets across Europe. And earlier today Japan's Nikkei ended the year with a 0.86% drop, dragged down by fears that Japan Airlines may file for bankruptcy. Cameron Peacock, market analyst at IG Markets, predicted that "after yesterday's continued run gains for European equity markets - albeit in rather thin trading conditions - investors in London may well be inclined to start taking money off the table." Today is the City's last full trading session of 2009, and many traders having already closed their books for the year. On New Year's Eve the London market will only be open until 12.30pm. Chi-Med's eastern promise In one sense, Chi-Med has simply kept to its script. Its consumer healthcare business in China has continued to increase sales at a rate of 20%-plus a year. It has also signed a deal with US organics group Hain Celestial to distribute products such as milk powder. But the other half of Chi-Med – developing original drugs for a global market – is where the excitement lies. The tale in the next year or two could be a spin-off of MediPharma. If so, we should discover whether the analysts are right in thinking that Chi-Med, at £100m or so, is still grossly undervalued. The answer may well be "yes". HSBC opens door into China with £5bn flotation HSBC plans to become the first international company to list on the Shanghai stock exchange by launching a £5bn share offer to Chinese investors in a move that is rich in symbolism. The bank is already well capitalised and does not need the money from flotation, but HSBC is keen to raise its profile with Chinese retail investors as it expands its branch network and looks at buying stakes in rival Chinese banks. HSBC confirmed that it was planning to list in Shanghai, but declined to discuss details and timing. Mike Trippitt, an analyst at Oriel Securities, said: "It will be easier for HSBC to grow its operations in China if people there have a financial stake in the brand. This is all about HSBC raising its profile in a market that is crucial to its success." HSBC recently signalled its determination to expand in China and across Asia by moving Michael Geoghegan, its chief executive, from London to be based full-time in Hong Kong, where HSBC is already quoted. The bank was founded in Hong Kong and Shanghai in 1865, but shifted its headquarters to London in 1993 after acquiring the Midland Bank. Hong Kong and China accounted for 40% of HSBC's pretax profits last year and analysts predict this could reach 50% over the next decade. A disastrous foray into the US sub-prime market, where it has been forced to write off billions because of the credit crunch, has persuaded management to return to its roots in the Far East, say analysts. Beijing has let it be known that it is ready to start allowing foreign companies to list on the Chinese mainland, reflecting its ambitions to open up the country's financial sector and transform Shanghai into an international financial hub to rival London and New York. Lawyers in London say that the China Securities Regulatory Commission is expected to change its laws in January to allow foreign and non-mainland companies to list in Shanghai. But the Chinese will retain a cap of 20% on the proportion of equity foreign banks can acquire in Chinese financial companies. Simon Maughan, an analyst at MF Global, said: "You can't overestimate the importance of China. If the Chinese were to move towards more open capital markets, perhaps allowing foreign institutions to invest in Chinese government debt, HSBC would be better positioned than any other western bank because it already has such a big presence in Hong Kong. A listing in Shanghai would reinforce its position in the region." HSBC is already the biggest foreign bank in a country where the market potential is viewed as vast. "Currying favour with the Chinese is both sensible and necessary if you are serious about growing in a nation with 1.3 billion people," said Maughan. The British bank is poised to buy some of the Asian retail and commercial assets being divested by Royal Bank of Scotland. The two sides have struck a deal for the assets in China, India and Malaysia, but the transaction is subject to regulatory approval in the three countries.