Morgan Stanley's UK stocks advice flags up underperformance pattern Graham Secker in Morgan Stanley's equity strategy team notes that a weaker pound is a positive support for a stock market where much of the revenues come from outside the UK. But he stresses that the UK has traditionally underperformed at the start of new global growth cycles, such as where we potentially find ourselves right now. In research entitled "Putting UK Equities into a Global Context", Secker comments: "Any increase in investor concern over the UK economy and/or political situation is unlikely to be a big negative for UK equities per se; if anything, the associated GBP weakness is a positive support. "However, we believe we are at the start of a new global growth cycle and such periods have historically seen the UK underperform given its more defensive characteristics. For this reason we recommend investors adopt a modest underweight in the UK." His examples of instances when UK equities underperform include when: short rates start rising; economic growth is recovering; when global equities are rising. "Such underperformance reflects the lower cyclical weighting in the UK," adds Secker. He underlines the point about where the UK stock market makes its money with calculations that that just 35% of UK stock market revenues come from the UK versus 43% from other developed regions and 22% from emerging markets. A weak pound could also see M&A activity rise in UK sectors such as materials, capital goods, pharmaceuticals and telecoms, where UK valuations are cheaper than their international peers, the note predicts. Sharp increase in hard-hit companies exiting junior stock market Aim Although the overall number of delistings from Aim fell from 72 to 65 in the quarter, the number leaving Aim owing to financial stress or insolvency rose from seven to 27, according to a report out today. Laurence Sacker of Hacker Young added: "For those companies bleeding cash and who cannot find supportive funders, the economy's gradual recuperation may come too late. We can expect financial stress to continue to be a common reason offered by companies for delisting." Apart from running into financial difficulties, the most common reason for a company to leave Aim was because it was taken over by or merged with another business. But due to the economic downturn the number of such deals has also fallen, from 29 in the third quarter of 2008 to 15 in the same period this year. Around 5% of the total involved moving to another exchange. Online gaming company Sportingbet became the latest business to announce such a move, when it said last week it intended to move from Aim to the full list early next year. There was a bright spot in the report, with just 15 companies leaving Aim during September, the final month of the quarter. This is the lowest number since March 2008. Virgin Media makes its London debut Virgin Mobile was the last company with the Virgin name to be quoted in London in 2006, while Sir Richard Branson's Virgin group famously went public for a while in the 1980s before the tycoon decided to take it private again. Branson now owns 6.5% of Virgin Media, having cut his holding by more than a third earlier this year.Morgan Stanley's UK stocks advice flags up underperformance pattern Graham Secker in Morgan Stanley's equity strategy team notes that a weaker pound is a positive support for a stock market where much of the revenues come from outside the UK. But he stresses that the UK has traditionally underperformed at the start of new global growth cycles, such as where we potentially find ourselves right now. In research entitled "Putting UK Equities into a Global Context", Secker comments: "Any increase in investor concern over the UK economy and/or political situation is unlikely to be a big negative for UK equities per se; if anything, the associated GBP weakness is a positive support. "However, we believe we are at the start of a new global growth cycle and such periods have historically seen the UK underperform given its more defensive characteristics. For this reason we recommend investors adopt a modest underweight in the UK." His examples of instances when UK equities underperform include when: short rates start rising; economic growth is recovering; when global equities are rising. "Such underperformance reflects the lower cyclical weighting in the UK," adds Secker. He underlines the point about where the UK stock market makes its money with calculations that that just 35% of UK stock market revenues come from the UK versus 43% from other developed regions and 22% from emerging markets. A weak pound could also see M&A activity rise in UK sectors such as materials, capital goods, pharmaceuticals and telecoms, where UK valuations are cheaper than their international peers, the note predicts. Sharp increase in hard-hit companies exiting junior stock market Aim Although the overall number of delistings from Aim fell from 72 to 65 in the quarter, the number leaving Aim owing to financial stress or insolvency rose from seven to 27, according to a report out today. Laurence Sacker of Hacker Young added: "For those companies bleeding cash and who cannot find supportive funders, the economy's gradual recuperation may come too late. We can expect financial stress to continue to be a common reason offered by companies for delisting." Apart from running into financial difficulties, the most common reason for a company to leave Aim was because it was taken over by or merged with another business. But due to the economic downturn the number of such deals has also fallen, from 29 in the third quarter of 2008 to 15 in the same period this year. Around 5% of the total involved moving to another exchange. Online gaming company Sportingbet became the latest business to announce such a move, when it said last week it intended to move from Aim to the full list early next year. There was a bright spot in the report, with just 15 companies leaving Aim during September, the final month of the quarter. This is the lowest number since March 2008. Virgin Media makes its London debut Virgin Mobile was the last company with the Virgin name to be quoted in London in 2006, while Sir Richard Branson's Virgin group famously went public for a while in the 1980s before the tycoon decided to take it private again. Branson now owns 6.5% of Virgin Media, having cut his holding by more than a third earlier this year.