Dubai shares plummet as crisis continues Today, many investors in the Middle East will get their first opportunity to respond to the crisis - as trading has been suspended since the middle of last week for the Eid al-Adha holiday. These debts include Nakheel's $3.5bn (£2.1bn) sukuk bond which was due for repayment on December 14. The crisis began last week when Nakheel sought a six-month delay on paying this off. The sell-off has gathered a bit of pace since trading began - with the main Abu Dhabi index now down 8.24% at 2670, a drop of 239 points. It is not allowed to fall by more than 10% in one day, so regulators could step in and halt trading if the slide continues. The National Bank of Abu Dhabi is down 9.7%. In Dubai, its main share index is 7.19% lower at 1942 points. These falls come despite efforts by business leaders to calm the situation. Riad Kamal, chief executive of construction firm Arabtec, has said he is confident that Dubai will not default on its debts. "Dubai should be given time to restructure its debt. I'm not going to lose sleep over this issue," Kamal told Reuters. We are continuing to monitor the situation following the unexpected announcement by the government of Dubai regarding a standstill on the debt of Dubai World and its Nakheel subsidiary, which has had an adverse impact on financial markets. The IMF's statement underlines how much pressure is on the UAE to rescue Dubai. Yesterday's launch of the special liquidity scheme could help.... The Japanese prime minister has also just been talking about the situation - telling reporters in Tokyo that he "remains cautious over Dubai credit worries". Another sign that the world market are feeling more optimistic is that the US dollar has lost ground against many other currencies, which has helped to push the oil price up. Despite the state of the US economy, investors still seek the safety of the greenback at times of crisis. Over in the UAE, the main Abu Dhabi share index has not clawed back any ground - it is currently 8.3% lower. According to the Daily Telegraph, a Dubai government spokesman has said that the game will 'date quickly' ... The Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange (its main market), has tumbled 8.3% - its biggest one-day fall ever. It lost 241.92 points to 2668.23. In Dubai, its main index fell by 7.3% - which is its biggest fall since 8th October 2008 when the banking crisis was at its height. Dubai World ended down nearly 15%. With the FTSE 100 now down by 50 points at 5195, there is growing concern that we have not heard more from the Abu Dhabi central bank about its rescue plan ... He is one of the best things to have happened to British racing since the invention of the horseshoe. But there are fears in the industry that he may have to cut back, should Dubai end up defaulting on its debts. We'll let you know as soon as there are any developments. Until then, thanks for reading and for the comments. After decades of unprecedented growth and expansion Dubai's overheated economy is reaching its melting point. Dubai World, the state-owned real-estate and ports giant that has driven much of the economic growth in the city-state in recent years, has asked for a moratorium on its debt Gordon Brown attempts to play down global impact of Dubai crisis The prime minister said this morning that Dubai's problems were "a setback", during a summit meeting of Commonwealth leaders in Trinidad and Tobago. "My own view is the world financial system is stronger now and able to deal with the problems that arise," said Brown. "I think we will find it is not on the scale of previous problems we have dealt with. I think global recovery has depended on monetary action and fiscal stimulus," he added. Brown was speaking before shares on Wall Street fell less than feared, which helped to drive the FTSE 100 back upwards to close almost 1% higher than yesterday. Brown also said that he had spoken to senior figures in Dubai, and was confident that their plans to redevelop the ports they own in the UK would still go ahead. "The world economy has put in place mechanisms by which when a problem starts in one country we are in a far better position to monitor it and to gauge the effects," Brown said in Port of Spain. The prime minister said that the major impediment to the plans for British ports were planning restrictions. Dubai World, the government-owned conglomerate that is now struggling to repay its debt, operates through its Dubai Ports World subsidiary container terminals at Tilbury, near London, and Southampton. It owns P&O, and is the third-largest port operator in the world. It has plans for regeneration projects include Chelsea Harbour, Regent Quarter at King's Cross, London Gateway Terminal and Shell Haven. Brown said: "The problem essentially for the Dubai ports has been issues relating to planning in Britain. This is potential project for Britain that will bring a large number of jobs. It has to go through a large number of hurdles." Brown attempted to sound an upbeat note as he awoke in Port of Spain – after a late-night flight to the Commonwealth heads of government meeting – to the news from Dubai. "This is a setback but I think you will find this is not on a scale where previous problems have been dealt with," he said. The prime minister said he did not believe the crisis in Dubai would threaten the world economic recovery. He cited the sophisticated monitoring of financial markets and the unprecedented fiscal and monetary stimuli over the last year. "There is five trillions of fiscal stimulus in the world economy – either had or about to have – and that is what is bringing the economy up. The monetary easing, with low interest rates and with quantitative easing in Britain and America – these have been the most important thing in giving the world economy a boost. "You are obviously going to have setbacks with a bank here or an organisation there that has had problems. But I believe the world has got a better way of monitoring what is happening and measuring the effects of this so that despite setbacks we can be assured we are still moving forward. "You are dealing with one set of issues related to Dubai. Dubai is part of the UAE, it is part of a wider enterprise. We are going to have issues like this because of the fallout over the last two years. But my own view is that the world financial system is stronger now and it will be able to deal with problems as they arise." Brown was speaking after the London stock market shrugged off an early plunge in share prices, following efforts by the emirate's ruling family to calm the panic. After a bout of heavy selling in Asia, the mood in the City was that traders are trying to catch their breath following the shock on Wednesday when Dubai World asked to defer repaying some debts for six months. However, shares did also fall on Wall Street when trading began today, following yesterday's holiday. Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al Maktoum, the uncle of Dubai's ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, attempted to calm the situation last night. "Our intervention in Dubai World was carefully planned and reflects its specific financial position," he said in a statement. "The government is spearheading the restructuring of this commercial operation in the full knowledge of how the markets would react. We understand the concerns of the market and the creditors in particular. However, we have had to intervene because of the need to take decisive action to address its particular debt burden." The FTSE 100 tumbled by 70 points, or nearly 1.4%, to 5123 when trading began. But with share prices volatile, it clawed back all these losses and closed 51.6 points higher at 5245.7, up 0.99%. There was relief that the Dow Jones fell by less than 2% when the half-day session began on Wall Street, having been closed yesterday for Thanksgiving. The index was just 1.3% lower at 10330 when trading ended in the City. Traders in London were not alarmed by a report that Britain's banks are exposed to almost $50bn of UAE debt, more than any other country. Earlier the Nikkei 225 closed 3.2% lower, with Japan's biggest banks leading the fallers. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index fell by 5.3%. Major building firms in Asia also fell sharply, as traders anticipated that the Dubai building boom was over. Today, Dubai itself came under more pressure. The cost of insuring the emirate's debt increased again, with five-year credit default swaps jumping by 129 basis points to 670 basis points this morning. Credit default swaps for Dubai World Ports jumped even more, from 608 basis points to 818.5. These changes indicate that the markets believe there is more chance of Dubai defaulting on its debts. And the value of an Islamic bond issued by Nakheel, Dubai World's property division, and due for repayment in December, almost halved. This is the debt which Dubai World hopes to avoid redeeming for six months. Predictions that Dubai could drag the world economy downwards again knocked $5.50 off the price of a barrel of oil, to $72.49. Many stock markets in the Middle East are closed for the feast of Eid al-Adha, making it harder to know how the region will respond to Dubai's woes. "This certainly proves that the perceived immunity of the Gulf region from the credit crunch is a mirage and also puts doubts in investors' minds on what else they are being economical on the truth with," said Philip Gillett of IG Index. "I think it is the timing that has caused less violent reaction than expected, with the US holiday and Eid, so should be interesting this afternoon," he added. Manus Cranny, senior market commentator at MF Global Spreads, said that some traders in London have been buying into the banking and mining shares in the search for bargains after yesterday's sell-off. "Only time will tell whether this is bottom fishing or if it will turn into a deep-sea dive ... This bounce off the bottom in London could be a bigger mirage than the daily haze that shrouds Dubai," Cranny said. It also emerged this morning that, according to JP Morgan, Royal Bank of Scotland has been the biggest loan arranger for Dubai World since January 2007. Analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch said this morning that the statement from the Dubai ruling family indicates that they are determined to restructure Dubai World's debt despite the impact on the financial markets. "The restructuring is likely to make the new issuances for UAE much harder in the short term and the implicit Abu Dhabi support is no longer taken for granted. Hence, we expect a further pressure on the banking sector," they said. Biggest daily fall for FTSE since March on Dubai and LSE woes A day after reporting falling profits because of growing competition, the LSE inadvertantly played into its rivals' hands as traders found themselves unable to do business during a key part of the day, with all order driven securities put in an auction period. This outage followed a number of recent technical glitches for the LSE, and comes just over a year after a seven hour halt in trading. Manoj Ladwa, senior trader at ETX Capital, said: As far as glitches go, the London Stock Exchange couldn't have picked a worse day. Traders were sat at their desks twiddling their thumbs for three hours while the LSE sorted out their issues, although those with access switched to trading on alternative exchanges. Once trading did resume on the main bourse, traders continued dumping stocks. The banking sector was hit the hardest as concerns over exposure to the Middle East forced traders to reduce positions. Ironically, the LSE itself was caught up in the Middle Eastern problems, since Borse Dubai holds a 20.56% stake in the company. With the prospect of this being dumped on the market, not to mention its trading problems, shares in the LSE fell 60p to 754.5p. Rival BATS told its clients they could continue to trade during the outage, while Chi-X complained that instigating an auction period meant trading could not be routed to its systems. It called on the Financial Services Authority to get involved to ensure "the continuation of trading and an orderly market." Investors' nerves are likely to be severely tested before the Middle Eastern markets and Wall Street reopen, as concerns grow about the financial health of Dubai and indeed the whole Gulf region. Joshua Raymond, market strategist at City Index said: Whether or not the problems at Dubai will be enough to create spin off affects into other sectors remains to be seen but this cannot be discarded in the near term. The key issue now is that any company that has direct or indirect links to Dubai now has a question mark over it and with the markets making some strong gains of late, investors have taken no chances today and have moved to cash in their profits. The combination of a full valuation, inadequate diversification, and regulatory risks around its main annuity product line, high risky asset leverage and operational risks around the strategic shift to savings products drives our new sell recommendation. The company has recently been the subject of bid speculation but we believe that an acquisition is unlikely unless the regulatory risks around capital are fully known. This is not expected to be clarified till mid-2010. London Stock Exchange crash halts trading The system ground to a halt at 10.35 this morning and did not resume until 2pm while the organisation searched for the fault. A spokesman said: "There were connectivity problems for a number of customers. Some customers were having intermittent connectivity. Some people could execute trades and some people couldn't. "We went into an auction call period where everyone could put trades on or take them off the system, but there was no execution of trade. The underlying order book was still working." Today's problems come just a day after the LSE reported a 38% fall in pre-tax profits to £79.4m for the six months to September. The business is facing lower share trading volumes as well as increasing competition from rival trading platforms such as Chi-X and Turquoise. During October an average £5bn worth of shares a day were traded on the LSE. In September last year, City traders were also left powerless when a computer crash paralysed the market for seven hours during what should have been one of its busiest sessions of the year. The stoppage – the longest in more than eight years – meant investors were unable to cash in on a stock market boom triggered by the US government's bailout of the huge mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac before the financial crisis struck just days later.Dubai shares plummet as crisis continues Today, many investors in the Middle East will get their first opportunity to respond to the crisis - as trading has been suspended since the middle of last week for the Eid al-Adha holiday. These debts include Nakheel's $3.5bn (£2.1bn) sukuk bond which was due for repayment on December 14. The crisis began last week when Nakheel sought a six-month delay on paying this off. The sell-off has gathered a bit of pace since trading began - with the main Abu Dhabi index now down 8.24% at 2670, a drop of 239 points. It is not allowed to fall by more than 10% in one day, so regulators could step in and halt trading if the slide continues. The National Bank of Abu Dhabi is down 9.7%. In Dubai, its main share index is 7.19% lower at 1942 points. These falls come despite efforts by business leaders to calm the situation. Riad Kamal, chief executive of construction firm Arabtec, has said he is confident that Dubai will not default on its debts. "Dubai should be given time to restructure its debt. I'm not going to lose sleep over this issue," Kamal told Reuters. We are continuing to monitor the situation following the unexpected announcement by the government of Dubai regarding a standstill on the debt of Dubai World and its Nakheel subsidiary, which has had an adverse impact on financial markets. The IMF's statement underlines how much pressure is on the UAE to rescue Dubai. Yesterday's launch of the special liquidity scheme could help.... The Japanese prime minister has also just been talking about the situation - telling reporters in Tokyo that he "remains cautious over Dubai credit worries". Another sign that the world market are feeling more optimistic is that the US dollar has lost ground against many other currencies, which has helped to push the oil price up. Despite the state of the US economy, investors still seek the safety of the greenback at times of crisis. Over in the UAE, the main Abu Dhabi share index has not clawed back any ground - it is currently 8.3% lower. According to the Daily Telegraph, a Dubai government spokesman has said that the game will 'date quickly' ... The Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange (its main market), has tumbled 8.3% - its biggest one-day fall ever. It lost 241.92 points to 2668.23. In Dubai, its main index fell by 7.3% - which is its biggest fall since 8th October 2008 when the banking crisis was at its height. Dubai World ended down nearly 15%. With the FTSE 100 now down by 50 points at 5195, there is growing concern that we have not heard more from the Abu Dhabi central bank about its rescue plan ... He is one of the best things to have happened to British racing since the invention of the horseshoe. But there are fears in the industry that he may have to cut back, should Dubai end up defaulting on its debts. We'll let you know as soon as there are any developments. Until then, thanks for reading and for the comments. After decades of unprecedented growth and expansion Dubai's overheated economy is reaching its melting point. Dubai World, the state-owned real-estate and ports giant that has driven much of the economic growth in the city-state in recent years, has asked for a moratorium on its debt Gordon Brown attempts to play down global impact of Dubai crisis The prime minister said this morning that Dubai's problems were "a setback", during a summit meeting of Commonwealth leaders in Trinidad and Tobago. "My own view is the world financial system is stronger now and able to deal with the problems that arise," said Brown. "I think we will find it is not on the scale of previous problems we have dealt with. I think global recovery has depended on monetary action and fiscal stimulus," he added. Brown was speaking before shares on Wall Street fell less than feared, which helped to drive the FTSE 100 back upwards to close almost 1% higher than yesterday. Brown also said that he had spoken to senior figures in Dubai, and was confident that their plans to redevelop the ports they own in the UK would still go ahead. "The world economy has put in place mechanisms by which when a problem starts in one country we are in a far better position to monitor it and to gauge the effects," Brown said in Port of Spain. The prime minister said that the major impediment to the plans for British ports were planning restrictions. Dubai World, the government-owned conglomerate that is now struggling to repay its debt, operates through its Dubai Ports World subsidiary container terminals at Tilbury, near London, and Southampton. It owns P&O, and is the third-largest port operator in the world. It has plans for regeneration projects include Chelsea Harbour, Regent Quarter at King's Cross, London Gateway Terminal and Shell Haven. Brown said: "The problem essentially for the Dubai ports has been issues relating to planning in Britain. This is potential project for Britain that will bring a large number of jobs. It has to go through a large number of hurdles." Brown attempted to sound an upbeat note as he awoke in Port of Spain – after a late-night flight to the Commonwealth heads of government meeting – to the news from Dubai. "This is a setback but I think you will find this is not on a scale where previous problems have been dealt with," he said. The prime minister said he did not believe the crisis in Dubai would threaten the world economic recovery. He cited the sophisticated monitoring of financial markets and the unprecedented fiscal and monetary stimuli over the last year. "There is five trillions of fiscal stimulus in the world economy – either had or about to have – and that is what is bringing the economy up. The monetary easing, with low interest rates and with quantitative easing in Britain and America – these have been the most important thing in giving the world economy a boost. "You are obviously going to have setbacks with a bank here or an organisation there that has had problems. But I believe the world has got a better way of monitoring what is happening and measuring the effects of this so that despite setbacks we can be assured we are still moving forward. "You are dealing with one set of issues related to Dubai. Dubai is part of the UAE, it is part of a wider enterprise. We are going to have issues like this because of the fallout over the last two years. But my own view is that the world financial system is stronger now and it will be able to deal with problems as they arise." Brown was speaking after the London stock market shrugged off an early plunge in share prices, following efforts by the emirate's ruling family to calm the panic. After a bout of heavy selling in Asia, the mood in the City was that traders are trying to catch their breath following the shock on Wednesday when Dubai World asked to defer repaying some debts for six months. However, shares did also fall on Wall Street when trading began today, following yesterday's holiday. Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al Maktoum, the uncle of Dubai's ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, attempted to calm the situation last night. "Our intervention in Dubai World was carefully planned and reflects its specific financial position," he said in a statement. "The government is spearheading the restructuring of this commercial operation in the full knowledge of how the markets would react. We understand the concerns of the market and the creditors in particular. However, we have had to intervene because of the need to take decisive action to address its particular debt burden." The FTSE 100 tumbled by 70 points, or nearly 1.4%, to 5123 when trading began. But with share prices volatile, it clawed back all these losses and closed 51.6 points higher at 5245.7, up 0.99%. There was relief that the Dow Jones fell by less than 2% when the half-day session began on Wall Street, having been closed yesterday for Thanksgiving. The index was just 1.3% lower at 10330 when trading ended in the City. Traders in London were not alarmed by a report that Britain's banks are exposed to almost $50bn of UAE debt, more than any other country. Earlier the Nikkei 225 closed 3.2% lower, with Japan's biggest banks leading the fallers. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index fell by 5.3%. Major building firms in Asia also fell sharply, as traders anticipated that the Dubai building boom was over. Today, Dubai itself came under more pressure. The cost of insuring the emirate's debt increased again, with five-year credit default swaps jumping by 129 basis points to 670 basis points this morning. Credit default swaps for Dubai World Ports jumped even more, from 608 basis points to 818.5. These changes indicate that the markets believe there is more chance of Dubai defaulting on its debts. And the value of an Islamic bond issued by Nakheel, Dubai World's property division, and due for repayment in December, almost halved. This is the debt which Dubai World hopes to avoid redeeming for six months. Predictions that Dubai could drag the world economy downwards again knocked $5.50 off the price of a barrel of oil, to $72.49. Many stock markets in the Middle East are closed for the feast of Eid al-Adha, making it harder to know how the region will respond to Dubai's woes. "This certainly proves that the perceived immunity of the Gulf region from the credit crunch is a mirage and also puts doubts in investors' minds on what else they are being economical on the truth with," said Philip Gillett of IG Index. "I think it is the timing that has caused less violent reaction than expected, with the US holiday and Eid, so should be interesting this afternoon," he added. Manus Cranny, senior market commentator at MF Global Spreads, said that some traders in London have been buying into the banking and mining shares in the search for bargains after yesterday's sell-off. "Only time will tell whether this is bottom fishing or if it will turn into a deep-sea dive ... This bounce off the bottom in London could be a bigger mirage than the daily haze that shrouds Dubai," Cranny said. It also emerged this morning that, according to JP Morgan, Royal Bank of Scotland has been the biggest loan arranger for Dubai World since January 2007. Analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch said this morning that the statement from the Dubai ruling family indicates that they are determined to restructure Dubai World's debt despite the impact on the financial markets. "The restructuring is likely to make the new issuances for UAE much harder in the short term and the implicit Abu Dhabi support is no longer taken for granted. Hence, we expect a further pressure on the banking sector," they said. Biggest daily fall for FTSE since March on Dubai and LSE woes A day after reporting falling profits because of growing competition, the LSE inadvertantly played into its rivals' hands as traders found themselves unable to do business during a key part of the day, with all order driven securities put in an auction period. This outage followed a number of recent technical glitches for the LSE, and comes just over a year after a seven hour halt in trading. Manoj Ladwa, senior trader at ETX Capital, said: As far as glitches go, the London Stock Exchange couldn't have picked a worse day. Traders were sat at their desks twiddling their thumbs for three hours while the LSE sorted out their issues, although those with access switched to trading on alternative exchanges. Once trading did resume on the main bourse, traders continued dumping stocks. The banking sector was hit the hardest as concerns over exposure to the Middle East forced traders to reduce positions. Ironically, the LSE itself was caught up in the Middle Eastern problems, since Borse Dubai holds a 20.56% stake in the company. With the prospect of this being dumped on the market, not to mention its trading problems, shares in the LSE fell 60p to 754.5p. Rival BATS told its clients they could continue to trade during the outage, while Chi-X complained that instigating an auction period meant trading could not be routed to its systems. It called on the Financial Services Authority to get involved to ensure "the continuation of trading and an orderly market." Investors' nerves are likely to be severely tested before the Middle Eastern markets and Wall Street reopen, as concerns grow about the financial health of Dubai and indeed the whole Gulf region. Joshua Raymond, market strategist at City Index said: Whether or not the problems at Dubai will be enough to create spin off affects into other sectors remains to be seen but this cannot be discarded in the near term. The key issue now is that any company that has direct or indirect links to Dubai now has a question mark over it and with the markets making some strong gains of late, investors have taken no chances today and have moved to cash in their profits. The combination of a full valuation, inadequate diversification, and regulatory risks around its main annuity product line, high risky asset leverage and operational risks around the strategic shift to savings products drives our new sell recommendation. The company has recently been the subject of bid speculation but we believe that an acquisition is unlikely unless the regulatory risks around capital are fully known. This is not expected to be clarified till mid-2010. London Stock Exchange crash halts trading The system ground to a halt at 10.35 this morning and did not resume until 2pm while the organisation searched for the fault. A spokesman said: "There were connectivity problems for a number of customers. Some customers were having intermittent connectivity. Some people could execute trades and some people couldn't. "We went into an auction call period where everyone could put trades on or take them off the system, but there was no execution of trade. The underlying order book was still working." Today's problems come just a day after the LSE reported a 38% fall in pre-tax profits to £79.4m for the six months to September. The business is facing lower share trading volumes as well as increasing competition from rival trading platforms such as Chi-X and Turquoise. During October an average £5bn worth of shares a day were traded on the LSE. In September last year, City traders were also left powerless when a computer crash paralysed the market for seven hours during what should have been one of its busiest sessions of the year. The stoppage – the longest in more than eight years – meant investors were unable to cash in on a stock market boom triggered by the US government's bailout of the huge mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac before the financial crisis struck just days later.