Aggreko powers ahead in rising stock market The global recovery rally continued and the FTSE 100 clambered to yet another 10-month high on Tuesday but it was the midcap market that provided much of the real news on how British businesses are heading off the recession. The company behind temporary power sources, including at this month's World Athletic Championships in Berlin, faces a more challenging second half because of tough comparatives with 2008 when the Beijing Olympics and exceptional US storm revenues boosted business. But it still expects profits for the full year to match 2008 and that left the shares up 9.1% at 670p. The debate continues over whether the bluechip index is now headed for a correction or has further to push on. The 40% rally from March's low today prompted a note from analysts at Charles Stanley because the FTSE 100 has already reached their 4900 year-end target. "Does this mean that we might be upgrading our expectation for the full year, or do we expect a pull back in the wake of such an almost unprecedented revival in risk appetite?" they ask. "In a nut shell, we expect the latter." Miners, banks and energy stocks drag FTSE to August low Equity strategist Ewen Stewart at Investec says he set a FTSE 100 target of 4,800 at the start of the year. He questions how much further this rally can go given its pace so will not be raising that target. "The market has rallied very close to that (4,800) slightly more quickly than I would have anticipated." "Yes, there had been slightly better economic news but let's not forget there are still very notable long-term risks out there." He says the market is unlikely to fall back so far that it goes below 3,000 and sees it being stuck in a range of 4,400 to 4,800. With little due out in the way of corporate news this week the market is likely to take its cues from economic data. UK inflation figures are due out this morning, the Bank of England's minutes on Wednesday and retail sales on Thursday. FTSE 100 down 2%, Wall St seen adding to pressure Talk that the turning point in the stock market has been reached is growing louder, with the FTSE 100 now down 2% and indices in France and Germany even harder hit. US futures also point to a drop on Wall Street when the opening bell tolls later, with traders expecting stock markets there to track the sell-off in Asia overnight. The DAX in Germany is down 2.3% and France's CAC 40 is down 2.6%. Caution knocks FTSE at start of data-focussed week Stock market falls in Asia overnight, signs of a faltering US consumer and a growing feeling the FTSE's rally had gone a little too far have pushed the London bluechips index down more than 1.8% this morning. The main focus this week will be macroeconomic data rather than results. Inflation data on Tuesday is expected to show the annual CPI rate slowed to 1.5% in July from 1.8% the month before. RPI is forecast at -.17% from -1.6% in June. On Wednesday, the Bank of England publishes minutes from its last policy meeting. Retail sales data on Thursday is expected to show a 0.2% rise in July from 1.2% the month before. Public finances data is also due out on Thursday. However the data turns out - and many experts caution the UK's recovery is behind the path of France and Germany, so there may be some nasty shocks - much of the positive news has been priced into stock markets. Still, many see the market putting in more gains by the end of the year even if there is a correction in the near-term. David Buik at BGC Partners expects the FTSE 100 to hit 5,100 by the end of December.Aggreko powers ahead in rising stock market The global recovery rally continued and the FTSE 100 clambered to yet another 10-month high on Tuesday but it was the midcap market that provided much of the real news on how British businesses are heading off the recession. The company behind temporary power sources, including at this month's World Athletic Championships in Berlin, faces a more challenging second half because of tough comparatives with 2008 when the Beijing Olympics and exceptional US storm revenues boosted business. But it still expects profits for the full year to match 2008 and that left the shares up 9.1% at 670p. The debate continues over whether the bluechip index is now headed for a correction or has further to push on. The 40% rally from March's low today prompted a note from analysts at Charles Stanley because the FTSE 100 has already reached their 4900 year-end target. "Does this mean that we might be upgrading our expectation for the full year, or do we expect a pull back in the wake of such an almost unprecedented revival in risk appetite?" they ask. "In a nut shell, we expect the latter." Miners, banks and energy stocks drag FTSE to August low Equity strategist Ewen Stewart at Investec says he set a FTSE 100 target of 4,800 at the start of the year. He questions how much further this rally can go given its pace so will not be raising that target. "The market has rallied very close to that (4,800) slightly more quickly than I would have anticipated." "Yes, there had been slightly better economic news but let's not forget there are still very notable long-term risks out there." He says the market is unlikely to fall back so far that it goes below 3,000 and sees it being stuck in a range of 4,400 to 4,800. With little due out in the way of corporate news this week the market is likely to take its cues from economic data. UK inflation figures are due out this morning, the Bank of England's minutes on Wednesday and retail sales on Thursday. FTSE 100 down 2%, Wall St seen adding to pressure Talk that the turning point in the stock market has been reached is growing louder, with the FTSE 100 now down 2% and indices in France and Germany even harder hit. US futures also point to a drop on Wall Street when the opening bell tolls later, with traders expecting stock markets there to track the sell-off in Asia overnight. The DAX in Germany is down 2.3% and France's CAC 40 is down 2.6%. Caution knocks FTSE at start of data-focussed week Stock market falls in Asia overnight, signs of a faltering US consumer and a growing feeling the FTSE's rally had gone a little too far have pushed the London bluechips index down more than 1.8% this morning. The main focus this week will be macroeconomic data rather than results. Inflation data on Tuesday is expected to show the annual CPI rate slowed to 1.5% in July from 1.8% the month before. RPI is forecast at -.17% from -1.6% in June. On Wednesday, the Bank of England publishes minutes from its last policy meeting. Retail sales data on Thursday is expected to show a 0.2% rise in July from 1.2% the month before. Public finances data is also due out on Thursday. However the data turns out - and many experts caution the UK's recovery is behind the path of France and Germany, so there may be some nasty shocks - much of the positive news has been priced into stock markets. Still, many see the market putting in more gains by the end of the year even if there is a correction in the near-term. David Buik at BGC Partners expects the FTSE 100 to hit 5,100 by the end of December.