Cadbury attacks track record of Kraft bosses Cadbury launched a renewed onslaught on Kraft Food's hostile £10.8bn bid for the UK confectionary company today, criticising the predator's financial and management track record. The attack came on the last day that Cadbury was able to bolster its defence against Kraft, which revealed its interest in a takeover in early September, but on terms that the British company has always described as "derisory". Roger Carr, Cadbury chairman, said that since Kraft's flotation in New York nine years ago, the shares had underperformed its global peer group by 42%. Since 2004, Cadbury's revenues had risen 50% faster than Kraft's and that while Kraft's underlying trading profit between 2004 and 2008 had been "basically flat," Cadbury's had grown by 31%. Kraft's margins had declined, while Cadbury had made solid progress, he claimed. He said: "Kraft's track record does not fill you with confidence; they have promised much but delivered less." Cadbury yesterday published 2009 figures which showed that sales were up around 5% on 2008, while margins and trading profits had also improved. It promised that the 2009 dividend would jump by 10% against 2008. Kraft said: "Cadbury's final defence document is underwhelming. They have said little that is new and have ducked the issue of profitability in 2010. We continue to believe the certainty and upside potential provided by our offer remains the best option for Cadbury's shareholders." Separately, Professor Chris Bones, dean of Henley Business School, raised the vexed question of whether a takeover of the iconic British chocolate factory, founded by Quakers nearly 200 years ago, was in the national interest. Bones flagged up the danger of Kraft closing Cadbury's research and development operation at Reading University during a submission to the parliamentary business, innovation and skills committee. He said: "This centre interacts with the university's world-renowned food science and agriculture departments and through joint research and other activities has contributed to the creation of a centre of excellence for the UK." Last week Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, repeated his warning that the government might not sit idly by if the reason for Kraft's takeover of Cadbury was merely to make "a fast buck". Carr was tight-lipped about the possibility of a "white knight" bid for Cadbury by Hershey of the US or Ferrero of Italy. Both Ferrero and Hershey are said to have lined up funding for a possible bid, but neither has decided whether to push ahead with a formal offer. They are expected to wait until after 19 January, the deadline for Kraft to increase its offer to meet concern among Cadbury's City shareholders that it is attempting to acquire the firm on the cheap.