Dubai market shows signs of life as UK creditors circle Dubai World, whose assets include P&O ports and the QE2, has asked lenders, among them Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), for a debt standstill till 2010; a move which raised fears the global economy could be entering a dangerous new phase and triggered a wider global share sell-off. Four British banks, which have a combined exposure of around $5bn, have formed a creditors group with two local banks led by the accounting firm KPMG, and are set to meet with Dubai World officials in the next couple of days. In heavy share trading today – the first transactions since public holiday in the region began in the middle of last week – the main Dubai index rose to 1,853 points. Sentiment in the wider Middle East region also improved. The stock market in neighbouring oil-rich Abu Dhabi surged ahead 4% to 2,673 points, its biggest one-day gain since March, while markets in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia were also up. "Today was an expected performance for both (UAE) markets. However, I expected a stronger performance from Dubai, more aggressive volumes," said Chamel Fahmy, a regional senior sales trader at Beltone Financial. "Institutions are more concerned with the effect of the Dubai debt on the real estate market, we could see Dubai prices going down by [a further] 30-35%," he added. Oman's top banks admitted today they had a total exposure of $77m (£52m) to the troubled conglomerate Dubai World, sending their shares down nearly 6%. Dubai World, a partly state-owned conglomerate, has been at the heart of the extraordinary growth surge in Dubai over recent years which has dramatically changed the physical landscape and is behind the palm-shaped islands that are being developed for luxury homes and hotels. The company is also involved in projects around the world, including Gulf banks, ports in 50 countries and a six-tower hotel-entertainment complex in Las Vegas. Dubai World requested a payment standstill on 25 November for $3.52bn worth of Islamic bonds maturing this month as it tried to restructure $26bn worth of debt. EFG Hermes, a regional investment bank, thinks Dubai in total could owe as much as $150bn – twice the size of the economy and two–and–a-half times its officially declared debt. The debt standstill statement took the financial markets by surprise because many investors had expected the Dubai government – or the nearby Abu Dhabi one – would step in and bail out such a key Middle East investment vehicle rather than see it publicly flounder. The default also played into wider fears that global stock markets had risen to unsustainable levels and company values did not reflect the continuing fragility of the world economy. The large exposure to the debt crisis of banks such as RBS are a major embarrassment at a time when they are trying to rebuild public confidence following their own government bailouts. Rescuing the British banking system is estimated by the National Audit Office to have cost the equivalent of more than £5,500 for every family in the country but RBS directors are threatening to resign if they cannot approve a £1.5bn bonus bonanza to their own staff. New Look hires City veteran as chairman ahead of flotation The move comes just a day after New Look announced it had appointed three investment banks to mastermind its flotation, which is expected early in the new year. New Look, which has more than 1,000 stores in 30 countries and employs 25,000 staff, is currently owned by private equity groups Permira and Apax Partners, and the chain's founder, Tom Singh. They bought the business off the stock exchange five years ago for £800m and have already recouped their original investment by piling debt, currently totalling £1bn, into the business. The latest flotation will be the second time in two years that the owners have tried to cash in their chips. A first attempt, with a sale to other private equity groups, failed when no one was prepared to pay the £1.8bn asking price. This time they are more hopeful of achieving that target. The chain has performed well through the recession. Gildersleeve joined Tesco in 1965 and was a director for 20 years until 2004. He is currently chairman of Carphone Warehouse and a director at British Land. He has also held boardroom positions at EMI, Gallaher, Lloyds TSB and Vodafone. New Look's chief executive, Carl McPhail, said the change of chairman was part of "a planned transition in the next phase of New Look's development" and that Wrigley would remain "a close friend of New Look". On Wednesday, New Look appointed JP Morgan Cazenove, Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse as advisers, although a decision on the precise timing of the float is not expected until after the key Christmas trading period is over. New Look is among a number of groups preparing to float next year. Others include Merlin, the leisure group behind Alton Towers and Warwick Castle, retailer Pets at Home and the Superdry fashion chain. The first to go will provide a crucial litmus test of investors' enthusiasm.Dubai market shows signs of life as UK creditors circle Dubai World, whose assets include P&O ports and the QE2, has asked lenders, among them Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), for a debt standstill till 2010; a move which raised fears the global economy could be entering a dangerous new phase and triggered a wider global share sell-off. Four British banks, which have a combined exposure of around $5bn, have formed a creditors group with two local banks led by the accounting firm KPMG, and are set to meet with Dubai World officials in the next couple of days. In heavy share trading today – the first transactions since public holiday in the region began in the middle of last week – the main Dubai index rose to 1,853 points. Sentiment in the wider Middle East region also improved. The stock market in neighbouring oil-rich Abu Dhabi surged ahead 4% to 2,673 points, its biggest one-day gain since March, while markets in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia were also up. "Today was an expected performance for both (UAE) markets. However, I expected a stronger performance from Dubai, more aggressive volumes," said Chamel Fahmy, a regional senior sales trader at Beltone Financial. "Institutions are more concerned with the effect of the Dubai debt on the real estate market, we could see Dubai prices going down by [a further] 30-35%," he added. Oman's top banks admitted today they had a total exposure of $77m (£52m) to the troubled conglomerate Dubai World, sending their shares down nearly 6%. Dubai World, a partly state-owned conglomerate, has been at the heart of the extraordinary growth surge in Dubai over recent years which has dramatically changed the physical landscape and is behind the palm-shaped islands that are being developed for luxury homes and hotels. The company is also involved in projects around the world, including Gulf banks, ports in 50 countries and a six-tower hotel-entertainment complex in Las Vegas. Dubai World requested a payment standstill on 25 November for $3.52bn worth of Islamic bonds maturing this month as it tried to restructure $26bn worth of debt. EFG Hermes, a regional investment bank, thinks Dubai in total could owe as much as $150bn – twice the size of the economy and two–and–a-half times its officially declared debt. The debt standstill statement took the financial markets by surprise because many investors had expected the Dubai government – or the nearby Abu Dhabi one – would step in and bail out such a key Middle East investment vehicle rather than see it publicly flounder. The default also played into wider fears that global stock markets had risen to unsustainable levels and company values did not reflect the continuing fragility of the world economy. The large exposure to the debt crisis of banks such as RBS are a major embarrassment at a time when they are trying to rebuild public confidence following their own government bailouts. Rescuing the British banking system is estimated by the National Audit Office to have cost the equivalent of more than £5,500 for every family in the country but RBS directors are threatening to resign if they cannot approve a £1.5bn bonus bonanza to their own staff. New Look hires City veteran as chairman ahead of flotation The move comes just a day after New Look announced it had appointed three investment banks to mastermind its flotation, which is expected early in the new year. New Look, which has more than 1,000 stores in 30 countries and employs 25,000 staff, is currently owned by private equity groups Permira and Apax Partners, and the chain's founder, Tom Singh. They bought the business off the stock exchange five years ago for £800m and have already recouped their original investment by piling debt, currently totalling £1bn, into the business. The latest flotation will be the second time in two years that the owners have tried to cash in their chips. A first attempt, with a sale to other private equity groups, failed when no one was prepared to pay the £1.8bn asking price. This time they are more hopeful of achieving that target. The chain has performed well through the recession. Gildersleeve joined Tesco in 1965 and was a director for 20 years until 2004. He is currently chairman of Carphone Warehouse and a director at British Land. He has also held boardroom positions at EMI, Gallaher, Lloyds TSB and Vodafone. New Look's chief executive, Carl McPhail, said the change of chairman was part of "a planned transition in the next phase of New Look's development" and that Wrigley would remain "a close friend of New Look". On Wednesday, New Look appointed JP Morgan Cazenove, Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse as advisers, although a decision on the precise timing of the float is not expected until after the key Christmas trading period is over. New Look is among a number of groups preparing to float next year. Others include Merlin, the leisure group behind Alton Towers and Warwick Castle, retailer Pets at Home and the Superdry fashion chain. The first to go will provide a crucial litmus test of investors' enthusiasm.