Reckitt disappoints as FTSE falls 2.6% on Greek junk rating As leading shares suffered their biggest one day fall since November on sovereign debt worries, the consumer goods company behind the likes of Cillit Bang and Vanish was a major faller after its results disappointed investors. At first glance a 15% increase in first quarter operating profit to £348m looked impressive, with a strong start to the year and delays to generic competition to its Suboxone heroin substitute. On top of that it revealed an Office of Fair Trading enquiry into alleged anti-competitive behaviour concerning its gaviscon heartburn treatment, for which it plans to make a provision. In theory the OFT could fine Reckitt up to 10% of its £8bn total turnover, if it rules against the company. Analysts James Edwardes Jones and Martin Dolan at Execution Noble said: We are not blown away by either the quantity or quality of these results and remain holders. This will not go down as a vintage set of results by Reckitt's standards. In large part this is a function of the height to which they have raised the bar when it comes to reporting. But it has to be said that underlying revenue growth of 5% is at the lower end of consumer companies that have reported so far and is unusually no better than Reckitt's guidance. And while net income of £348m exceeded consensus expectations of £341m it was some way short of the most optimistic estimates, including our own £366m. Cuts jeopardise solar utility IPO A plan to set up an innovative "green" utility with a £1bn flotation on the London stock market risks being blown off course due to financial problems in the eurozone. An Engyco spokesman said €3bn of potential investment was at stake if Madrid introduced plans to reduce solar subsidies, which he believed would only save ministers €420m. City analysts specialising in the clean-technology sector believe there is little chance of Engyco being launched in the next couple of weeks as scheduled given the negative noises coming out of Madrid. "This is nothing less than a catastrophe" for investors, said Stephane Aderca, an energy analyst at Liberum Capital in London. "We had believed that a promise [to pay a certain level of subsidy] is a promise. Going back on a promise brings the whole thing into question." Spain's government has sucked in an estimated €18bn in solar-power projects since 2008 by offering generous public subsidies but is now looking at cutting back as the economy suffers. The state has the authority to cut prices paid to operating renewable power plants under a 2007 law, according to an industry ministry spokesman who declined to be identified. All options are being assessed for a new strategic plan this year, he told local media, in comments that led some Spanish solar and wind developer shares to fall over 4% at the end of last week.Reckitt disappoints as FTSE falls 2.6% on Greek junk rating As leading shares suffered their biggest one day fall since November on sovereign debt worries, the consumer goods company behind the likes of Cillit Bang and Vanish was a major faller after its results disappointed investors. At first glance a 15% increase in first quarter operating profit to £348m looked impressive, with a strong start to the year and delays to generic competition to its Suboxone heroin substitute. On top of that it revealed an Office of Fair Trading enquiry into alleged anti-competitive behaviour concerning its gaviscon heartburn treatment, for which it plans to make a provision. In theory the OFT could fine Reckitt up to 10% of its £8bn total turnover, if it rules against the company. Analysts James Edwardes Jones and Martin Dolan at Execution Noble said: We are not blown away by either the quantity or quality of these results and remain holders. This will not go down as a vintage set of results by Reckitt's standards. In large part this is a function of the height to which they have raised the bar when it comes to reporting. But it has to be said that underlying revenue growth of 5% is at the lower end of consumer companies that have reported so far and is unusually no better than Reckitt's guidance. And while net income of £348m exceeded consensus expectations of £341m it was some way short of the most optimistic estimates, including our own £366m. Cuts jeopardise solar utility IPO A plan to set up an innovative "green" utility with a £1bn flotation on the London stock market risks being blown off course due to financial problems in the eurozone. An Engyco spokesman said €3bn of potential investment was at stake if Madrid introduced plans to reduce solar subsidies, which he believed would only save ministers €420m. City analysts specialising in the clean-technology sector believe there is little chance of Engyco being launched in the next couple of weeks as scheduled given the negative noises coming out of Madrid. "This is nothing less than a catastrophe" for investors, said Stephane Aderca, an energy analyst at Liberum Capital in London. "We had believed that a promise [to pay a certain level of subsidy] is a promise. Going back on a promise brings the whole thing into question." Spain's government has sucked in an estimated €18bn in solar-power projects since 2008 by offering generous public subsidies but is now looking at cutting back as the economy suffers. The state has the authority to cut prices paid to operating renewable power plants under a 2007 law, according to an industry ministry spokesman who declined to be identified. All options are being assessed for a new strategic plan this year, he told local media, in comments that led some Spanish solar and wind developer shares to fall over 4% at the end of last week.