FTSE finishes higher as miners make up for poor GDP numbers The worst UK recession on record following a shock fall in third quarter GDP - and the stock market moves higher, led by mining groups and banks. Traders explained the discrepancy by saying the FTSE 100 had long ceased to be representative of the UK economy, with global influences proving a far more important factor. So a rebound in metal prices - with copper up to a one year high - lifted mining shares and thus the rest of the market. At the same time Credit Suisse upgraded the whole mining sector: We raise mining to benchmark (having downgraded in late May), buying into any weakness - and maintain our overweight of steel (a position we have had since March). We reiterate our overweight on Vedanta, and believe our thesis remains still intact (£17 per share for 'business as is', £15 for 'confirmed growth', £20 for 'cost reduction' and £6 for 'further growth'), even without a further commodity price rally.The key reason why this valuation anomaly remains, we think, is Vedanta pushing through with its programmes aggressively in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, contributing to its towering growth profile, when other balance-sheet constrained companies were pulling back. The vast majority of the growth comes through in the next two calendar years and hence investors will not need to wait too long before the impact of the growth flows through to earnings. We acknowledge the corporate risks - e.g. [the current bid battle for] Asarco, abandoned corporate structure simplification move - but think this is more than reflected in the price. With the majority of companies listed on the London Stock Exchange relying on revenues from outside of the UK, today's poor UK GDP figures have largely been shrugged off, with investors preferring to concentrate on the US earnings season. The FTSE 100 did however fail to hold above 5280, a key resistance level, and this could put a roof on gains when the market re-opens next week. We also saw a number of investors cite falling US markets as motivation to lock in profits. It also emphasised its caution with regards to takeovers. It was outbid in an auction for a "significant" acquisition - supposedly by a private equity group - but the downside of that is it will take a £1.9m charge for transaction costs. All in all though, the update lifted Filtrona's shares by 13p to 172.8p and analyst Andrew Darke at Ambrian issued a buy note on the business. As Hardy is not operator and therefore unable to dictate the pace of drilling, we would wait until drilling of the next well is confirmed before considering getting back into the stock. As such, we are downgrading Hardy to underperform from outperform and lower our target price to 250p from 400p. FTSE 100 shrugs off poor GDP figures as miners gain ground If there was ever a clear sign of the disconnection between the UK stock market and the UK economy, it has come in the reaction of the FTSE 100 to the shock GDP figures. The biggest influence of course is the mining sector, which is affected by global issues and not just UK economic news, no matter how bad. So with copper up again at a year's high and gold holding firm, investors are still backing the sector. We reiterate our overweight on Vedanta, and believe our 'Path to 50' thesis remains still intact (£17 per share for 'business as is', £15 for 'confirmed growth', £20 for 'cost reduction' and £6 for 'further growth'), even without a further commodity price rally. The key reason why this valuation anomaly remains, we think, is Vedanta pushing through with its programmes aggressively in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, contributing to its towering growth profile, when other balance-sheet constrained companies were pulling back. The vast majority of the growth comes through in the next two calendar years and hence investors will not need to wait too long before the impact of the growth flows through to earnings. We acknowledge the corporate risks - e.g. [the current bid battle for] Asarco, abandoned corporate structure simplification move - but think this is more than reflected in the price. Meanwhile Credit Suisse upgraded the whole mining sector: We raise mining to benchmark (having downgraded in late May), buying into any weakness-and maintain our overweight of steel (a position we have had since March). We upgrade mining because: a) global excess liquidity is at an all-time high and leads commodities by a year; b) industrial commodities tend to peak four months after the peak in IP momentum (ie, the middle of the first quarter of 2010) and when manufacturing inventories peak; c) China should grow at 9-10% GDP until 2011 and commodity prices can rise even when China's investment growth slows (as in 2004); d) China may diversify some of its $2.3tn of foreign exchange reserves into commodities given its strategic needs and an undervalued currency); e) companies, stock prices and analysts in general are discounting prices 20-45% below spot; f) unusually, the sector has lagged emerging markets. What stops us from going overweight mining is inventory build in China, China's investment share of GDP standing at 42% and the seasonality of commodity prices. Investors continue to hold onto their long positions across all the main indexes with some adding to positions on yesterday's dip below 5200. With Microsoft reporting later and UK GDP numbers disappointing, stock markets could be in for a volatile end to the week.FTSE finishes higher as miners make up for poor GDP numbers The worst UK recession on record following a shock fall in third quarter GDP - and the stock market moves higher, led by mining groups and banks. Traders explained the discrepancy by saying the FTSE 100 had long ceased to be representative of the UK economy, with global influences proving a far more important factor. So a rebound in metal prices - with copper up to a one year high - lifted mining shares and thus the rest of the market. At the same time Credit Suisse upgraded the whole mining sector: We raise mining to benchmark (having downgraded in late May), buying into any weakness - and maintain our overweight of steel (a position we have had since March). We reiterate our overweight on Vedanta, and believe our thesis remains still intact (£17 per share for 'business as is', £15 for 'confirmed growth', £20 for 'cost reduction' and £6 for 'further growth'), even without a further commodity price rally.The key reason why this valuation anomaly remains, we think, is Vedanta pushing through with its programmes aggressively in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, contributing to its towering growth profile, when other balance-sheet constrained companies were pulling back. The vast majority of the growth comes through in the next two calendar years and hence investors will not need to wait too long before the impact of the growth flows through to earnings. We acknowledge the corporate risks - e.g. [the current bid battle for] Asarco, abandoned corporate structure simplification move - but think this is more than reflected in the price. With the majority of companies listed on the London Stock Exchange relying on revenues from outside of the UK, today's poor UK GDP figures have largely been shrugged off, with investors preferring to concentrate on the US earnings season. The FTSE 100 did however fail to hold above 5280, a key resistance level, and this could put a roof on gains when the market re-opens next week. We also saw a number of investors cite falling US markets as motivation to lock in profits. It also emphasised its caution with regards to takeovers. It was outbid in an auction for a "significant" acquisition - supposedly by a private equity group - but the downside of that is it will take a £1.9m charge for transaction costs. All in all though, the update lifted Filtrona's shares by 13p to 172.8p and analyst Andrew Darke at Ambrian issued a buy note on the business. As Hardy is not operator and therefore unable to dictate the pace of drilling, we would wait until drilling of the next well is confirmed before considering getting back into the stock. As such, we are downgrading Hardy to underperform from outperform and lower our target price to 250p from 400p. FTSE 100 shrugs off poor GDP figures as miners gain ground If there was ever a clear sign of the disconnection between the UK stock market and the UK economy, it has come in the reaction of the FTSE 100 to the shock GDP figures. The biggest influence of course is the mining sector, which is affected by global issues and not just UK economic news, no matter how bad. So with copper up again at a year's high and gold holding firm, investors are still backing the sector. We reiterate our overweight on Vedanta, and believe our 'Path to 50' thesis remains still intact (£17 per share for 'business as is', £15 for 'confirmed growth', £20 for 'cost reduction' and £6 for 'further growth'), even without a further commodity price rally. The key reason why this valuation anomaly remains, we think, is Vedanta pushing through with its programmes aggressively in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, contributing to its towering growth profile, when other balance-sheet constrained companies were pulling back. The vast majority of the growth comes through in the next two calendar years and hence investors will not need to wait too long before the impact of the growth flows through to earnings. We acknowledge the corporate risks - e.g. [the current bid battle for] Asarco, abandoned corporate structure simplification move - but think this is more than reflected in the price. Meanwhile Credit Suisse upgraded the whole mining sector: We raise mining to benchmark (having downgraded in late May), buying into any weakness-and maintain our overweight of steel (a position we have had since March). We upgrade mining because: a) global excess liquidity is at an all-time high and leads commodities by a year; b) industrial commodities tend to peak four months after the peak in IP momentum (ie, the middle of the first quarter of 2010) and when manufacturing inventories peak; c) China should grow at 9-10% GDP until 2011 and commodity prices can rise even when China's investment growth slows (as in 2004); d) China may diversify some of its $2.3tn of foreign exchange reserves into commodities given its strategic needs and an undervalued currency); e) companies, stock prices and analysts in general are discounting prices 20-45% below spot; f) unusually, the sector has lagged emerging markets. What stops us from going overweight mining is inventory build in China, China's investment share of GDP standing at 42% and the seasonality of commodity prices. Investors continue to hold onto their long positions across all the main indexes with some adding to positions on yesterday's dip below 5200. With Microsoft reporting later and UK GDP numbers disappointing, stock markets could be in for a volatile end to the week.