FTSE rally falters as US consumers spark caution The stock market's summer rally showed signs of faltering on Friday, as bad news from US consumers prompted investors to take profits. The Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers said its preliminary reading of the index of confidence for August fell to 63.2 from 66.0 in July - well below economists' forecasts for 68.5, according to a Reuters poll. Tim Hughes at IG Index comments: "It will be interesting to see next week whether investors show a continued desire to buy into weakness in the market; if the Dow continues on its current trajectory, there will be plenty of weakness into which they can buy." "Growth in France and Germany was tentative and analysts are starting to voice concerns that deflation may be a risk for the US economy as inflation fell more steeply on an annual basis than in more than fifty years. "On the basis of these cold, hard facts, equities are beginning to look severely overbought at current levels. If this is indeed set to be a W-shaped recovery, we may be in for a rocky ride downhill from these levels." The Daily Telegraph reported that the consortium has approached bankers from Credit Suisse to prepare a bid for British Land that could be worth up to £10bn including debt. British Land declined to comment on the report. The shares closed up more than 3.9% at 512.5p. Miners also fell as the US sentiment data called the strength on an economic recovery into question and dented metals prices. The company publishes a number of Jackson's best known hits including Thriller and Rock With You through its writer Rod Temperton. It said "the unexpected death of Michael Jackson has resulted in an extraordinary surge in the sale of his work." Chrysalis flagged up the potential boost later in the year from the the new Robbie Williams album and hopes for the Beatles' digitally re-released repertoire for which it holds certain George Martin producer master rights. Analyst Steve Liechti at house broker Investec comments: "Comments on the fourth quarter imply a much stronger trading period, helped by new releases and current market successes." "We still see good underlying catalogue value and maintain a buy recommendation." BAE torpedo deal lifts shares on lacklustre day for FTSE BAE bucked the trend of the wider market, which failed to push higher after Friday's 10-month closing high. The FTSE 100 ended a quiet day down 9.4 points, or just 0.2%, at 4722.2. Losses were pared in afternoon trading thanks to some support from Wall Street after fast-food giant McDonald's beat expectations with July sales rising 4.3%, helped by strong sales in the UK and France. The Dow Jones industrial average was down just 16 points at 9354 at the time London closed. But Ben Cohen at Collins Stewart retained his "sell" recommendation and cut his price target on Catlin to 310p from 320p, citing a disappointing mix of earnings in the results. He says: "We see H1 results as disappointing at a time that peers are comfortably beating expectations... We recognise the breadth of the franchise that has been built up, but these results underline the uneven delivery." "The group is trading resiliently in the current difficult environment, although visibility remains limited." The patient may be off life support, but there's still a long road to full recovery What's going on? Well, the market isn't keen on cash calls, so Standard suffered from that, but the broader context is the bulls of bank shares are betting that now is the time to start anticipating economic recovery. Their arguments, simply put, are these: first, the government has stabilised the sector; second, bank shares suffered most in the downturn so should be among the biggest beneficiaries when the economy picks up; third, we are two years into the crisis and the tide is beginning to turn. It's all a bit previous. As I keep saying, it's only a matter of months since Royal Bank of Scotland's ability to keep its branches and cash machines open hung by a gossamer thread. If Barclays had not carried on doing business with it, the fallen Edinburgh giant would not have been able to do so. Indeed, RBS, which just scraped into profit with £7.5bn of bad debts, sounded a much more cautious note than Lloyds, warning that its operating performance might not improve for a couple of years. It could be even worse. The Eighties slump was concentrated in traditional heavy industry; this one is across the board. Debt - consumer, corporate and government - is running at very high levels; there will have to be some serious deleveraging. The low interest rate environment is making the debt burden easier to bear, but there are problems ahead when interest rates rise again, possibly a year or 18 months from now. Banks face hefty bad loan write-offs for some time to come. Even leaving that aside, they cannot pat themselves on the back about a recovery before they have restored lending at sensible levels to small and medium sized firms. The small business sector is a major employer and restoring confidence there is a key element in any revival. The banks' fortunes are obviously harnessed to the economy as a whole. There, the signals are contradictory, not least because of the fragmentation of Britain's crunch economy. Those still in receipt of a salary or pension and without burdensome borrowings are in many cases better off due to lower interest rates and cheaper prices. That contrasts sharply with those in negative equity, heavy debt or who have lost their job. And, despite a flurry of headlines last week hailing the end of the recession, Bank of England governor Mervyn King feels it is too early to breathe sighs of relief, pumping a further £50bn into the economy through quantitative easing. This discussion is trickier because the definition of recovery is to some degree subjective. If it assumes a return to pre-crisis conditions, that is nowhere in prospect. If it is taken to mean the very worst is over, the recovery probably has begun. But half the banks are still on life support and the economy is still receiving transfusions of cash. It's going to be a long convalescence - and we can't rule out a relapse.FTSE rally falters as US consumers spark caution The stock market's summer rally showed signs of faltering on Friday, as bad news from US consumers prompted investors to take profits. The Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers said its preliminary reading of the index of confidence for August fell to 63.2 from 66.0 in July - well below economists' forecasts for 68.5, according to a Reuters poll. Tim Hughes at IG Index comments: "It will be interesting to see next week whether investors show a continued desire to buy into weakness in the market; if the Dow continues on its current trajectory, there will be plenty of weakness into which they can buy." "Growth in France and Germany was tentative and analysts are starting to voice concerns that deflation may be a risk for the US economy as inflation fell more steeply on an annual basis than in more than fifty years. "On the basis of these cold, hard facts, equities are beginning to look severely overbought at current levels. If this is indeed set to be a W-shaped recovery, we may be in for a rocky ride downhill from these levels." The Daily Telegraph reported that the consortium has approached bankers from Credit Suisse to prepare a bid for British Land that could be worth up to £10bn including debt. British Land declined to comment on the report. The shares closed up more than 3.9% at 512.5p. Miners also fell as the US sentiment data called the strength on an economic recovery into question and dented metals prices. The company publishes a number of Jackson's best known hits including Thriller and Rock With You through its writer Rod Temperton. It said "the unexpected death of Michael Jackson has resulted in an extraordinary surge in the sale of his work." Chrysalis flagged up the potential boost later in the year from the the new Robbie Williams album and hopes for the Beatles' digitally re-released repertoire for which it holds certain George Martin producer master rights. Analyst Steve Liechti at house broker Investec comments: "Comments on the fourth quarter imply a much stronger trading period, helped by new releases and current market successes." "We still see good underlying catalogue value and maintain a buy recommendation." BAE torpedo deal lifts shares on lacklustre day for FTSE BAE bucked the trend of the wider market, which failed to push higher after Friday's 10-month closing high. The FTSE 100 ended a quiet day down 9.4 points, or just 0.2%, at 4722.2. Losses were pared in afternoon trading thanks to some support from Wall Street after fast-food giant McDonald's beat expectations with July sales rising 4.3%, helped by strong sales in the UK and France. The Dow Jones industrial average was down just 16 points at 9354 at the time London closed. But Ben Cohen at Collins Stewart retained his "sell" recommendation and cut his price target on Catlin to 310p from 320p, citing a disappointing mix of earnings in the results. He says: "We see H1 results as disappointing at a time that peers are comfortably beating expectations... We recognise the breadth of the franchise that has been built up, but these results underline the uneven delivery." "The group is trading resiliently in the current difficult environment, although visibility remains limited." The patient may be off life support, but there's still a long road to full recovery What's going on? Well, the market isn't keen on cash calls, so Standard suffered from that, but the broader context is the bulls of bank shares are betting that now is the time to start anticipating economic recovery. Their arguments, simply put, are these: first, the government has stabilised the sector; second, bank shares suffered most in the downturn so should be among the biggest beneficiaries when the economy picks up; third, we are two years into the crisis and the tide is beginning to turn. It's all a bit previous. As I keep saying, it's only a matter of months since Royal Bank of Scotland's ability to keep its branches and cash machines open hung by a gossamer thread. If Barclays had not carried on doing business with it, the fallen Edinburgh giant would not have been able to do so. Indeed, RBS, which just scraped into profit with £7.5bn of bad debts, sounded a much more cautious note than Lloyds, warning that its operating performance might not improve for a couple of years. It could be even worse. The Eighties slump was concentrated in traditional heavy industry; this one is across the board. Debt - consumer, corporate and government - is running at very high levels; there will have to be some serious deleveraging. The low interest rate environment is making the debt burden easier to bear, but there are problems ahead when interest rates rise again, possibly a year or 18 months from now. Banks face hefty bad loan write-offs for some time to come. Even leaving that aside, they cannot pat themselves on the back about a recovery before they have restored lending at sensible levels to small and medium sized firms. The small business sector is a major employer and restoring confidence there is a key element in any revival. The banks' fortunes are obviously harnessed to the economy as a whole. There, the signals are contradictory, not least because of the fragmentation of Britain's crunch economy. Those still in receipt of a salary or pension and without burdensome borrowings are in many cases better off due to lower interest rates and cheaper prices. That contrasts sharply with those in negative equity, heavy debt or who have lost their job. And, despite a flurry of headlines last week hailing the end of the recession, Bank of England governor Mervyn King feels it is too early to breathe sighs of relief, pumping a further £50bn into the economy through quantitative easing. This discussion is trickier because the definition of recovery is to some degree subjective. If it assumes a return to pre-crisis conditions, that is nowhere in prospect. If it is taken to mean the very worst is over, the recovery probably has begun. But half the banks are still on life support and the economy is still receiving transfusions of cash. It's going to be a long convalescence - and we can't rule out a relapse.