virgin media makes its london debut virgin mobile was the last company with the virgin name to be quoted in london in 2006, while sir richard branson's virgin group famously went public for a while in the 1980s before the tycoon decided to take it private again. branson now owns 6.5% of virgin media, having cut his holding by more than a third earlier this year.
morgan stanley's uk stocks advice flags up underperformance pattern graham secker in morgan stanley's equity strategy team notes that a weaker pound is a positive support for a stock market where much of the revenues come from outside the uk. but he stresses that the uk has traditionally underperformed at the start of new global growth cycles, such as where we potentially find ourselves right now. in research entitled "putting uk equities into a global context", secker comments: "any increase in investor concern over the uk economy and/or political situation is unlikely to be a big negative for uk equities per se; if anything, the associated gbp weakness is a positive support. "however, we believe we are at the start of a new global growth cycle and such periods have historically seen the uk underperform given its more defensive characteristics. for this reason we recommend investors adopt a modest underweight in the uk." his examples of instances when uk equities underperform include when: short rates start rising; economic growth is recovering; when global equities are rising. "such underperformance reflects the lower cyclical weighting in the uk," adds secker. he underlines the point about where the uk stock market makes its money with calculations that that just 35% of uk stock market revenues come from the uk versus 43% from other developed regions and 22% from emerging markets. a weak pound could also see m&a activity rise in uk sectors such as materials, capital goods, pharmaceuticals and telecoms, where uk valuations are cheaper than their international peers, the note predicts.
sharp increase in hard-hit companies exiting junior stock market aim although the overall number of delistings from aim fell from 72 to 65 in the quarter, the number leaving aim owing to financial stress or insolvency rose from seven to 27, according to a report out today. laurence sacker of hacker young added: "for those companies bleeding cash and who cannot find supportive funders, the economy's gradual recuperation may come too late. we can expect financial stress to continue to be a common reason offered by companies for delisting." apart from running into financial difficulties, the most common reason for a company to leave aim was because it was taken over by or merged with another business. but due to the economic downturn the number of such deals has also fallen, from 29 in the third quarter of 2008 to 15 in the same period this year. around 5% of the total involved moving to another exchange. online gaming company sportingbet became the latest business to announce such a move, when it said last week it intended to move from aim to the full list early next year. there was a bright spot in the report, with just 15 companies leaving aim during september, the final month of the quarter. this is the lowest number since march 2008.
just retirement retires from market in £225m deal the company has agreed to a 76p a share bid from avalon acquisitions, a vehicle backed by private equity group permira. the deal values the company, which sells investment products to people approaching retirement, at £225.5m. just retirement's shares have added 5p to 74.5p. panmure gordon described the move as a "sad end for investors" and suggested the bid was a low ball one. analyst barrie cornes said: after over a year in discussions, just retirement have finally announced a recommended offer for the company at 76p a share in cash. although the deal will almost certainly go through, we view it as disappointing. the year end results announced today [operating profits up 25%] reinforce our view that the business is in good shape.
talk of börse bid for london stock exchange grips city lse shares soared 52.5p to 860.5p on the story –a more likely reason for the rise than the earlier news that it had paid $30m (£18m) for a sri lanka-based technology company. neither the lse nor deutsche börse would comment but it would be a remarkable turn of events. lse's former boss clara furse saw off a host of predators, including the german stock exchange and nasdaq, but recently stepped down to be replaced by frenchman xavier rolet. the lse faces increasing competition but there have been very few suggestions in the city that the answer to its problems would be a new link-up with the germans. stagecoach's uk bus business was in focus yesterday, with morgan stanley analysts raising full-year earning forecasts for 2011 and 2012 by 40% on prospects for that division. stagecoach accelerated 11.1p to 170.2p, while national express rose 0.4p to 476.5p.
pirate bay bidder kicked off swedish stock market the move comes amid claims that global gaming factory x took a "casual" approach to financial disclosures surrounding the bid, which it launched in june. the deal appears to have come crashing down, however, after questions were raised about how global gaming - which made around £500,000 last year - intended to pay for the acquisition. following an investigation by stockholm-based aktietorget - the equity market on which ggf trades its shares - officials announced yesterday that the company would be permanently barring from doing business on the exchange. the statement said that global gaming had "seriously violated" the exchange's rules by failing to ensure that information it provided to investors was "accurate, relevant and reliable". "they give a systematic impression of a lack of accountability and of an almost casual and unsuspecting approach to disclosure requirements." concerns about ggf's actions had spread almost as soon as the company announced its plans earlier this year, and gunther marder, head of the swedish shareholders' assocation, said "everything seemed shady from the start". "it is impossible to say what has been true and what has been a lie," he told the associated press. "this entire affair has been lined with clumsy statements and doubtful claims." last week aktietorget had suspended ggf's shares, with senior officials suggesting that the company had failed to produce any evidence that it had the funds, or agreements with investors to provide the required cash.
market rally is not over yet, says morgan stanley after august's stock market rally and last week's subsequent dip, investors have been concerned that shares may have run ahead of themselves and lost touch with economic reality. draaisma and his team have not turned into all-out bulls, but they are positive about the immediate future, although they admit there are concerns: "there are plenty of things to worry about. near-term, investors are worried that the rally has gone too far too fast. they worry that there are some important signs of deteriorating conditions, such as lower bond yields, higher vix [volatility index], the 44% fall in the baltic dry index, the 23% fall in the chinese stock market, the first global rate hike (israel on 24 august), the nearing end to quantitative easing, and the end of the cash-for-clunkers programme. "medium-term, investors are worried about the poor state of government finances, deleveraging of households and the financial sector. we very much share these medium-term concerns, but we are less worried about the next 3-6 months. "economic news has been impressive, recently. us housing data show signs of stabilization, with inventories of unsold homes having fallen to about 8 months. manufacturing surveys have risen further. importantly, central bankers tell us that they do not intend to hike rates anytime soon, and ben bernanke has been reappointed for another term, ensuring continuity. we would start to get more nervous about equity market direction if and when policymakers feel confident enough to embark on fiscal or monetary tightening, but that is not the case yet. "on a 3-6 month view, we continue to have a positive bias on equities, and prefer equities over government bonds, as we have done ever since we became more optimistic in july. we think the rebound rally has further to go, still." and after that? "we think the next market phase will be a correction, coinciding with the start of monetary or fiscal tightening. at some point an upside growth surprise will lead to fiscal or monetary tightening, which in turn will lead to dislocation. our analysis of historical secular bear markets is consistent with this. "the challenge will be to identify what constitutes the start of tightening. it could be a variety of things, including: an oil price spike, an inflation spike, a tax hike (such as the vat rate hike in japan in 1997), a more stringent capital requirement for banks (such as what happened in the us in 1936), or simply the first fed rate hike (which is most often the signal)."
rsa drops on cash call talk, as ftse rally fades the insurer fell 6.2p to 124.4p, a near 5% decline, as investors took fright at the prospect of a reported £600m rights issue, supposedly to boost its balance sheet and give it firepower for acquisitions. traders said they would be surprised at such a move unless there was a deal in the offing, since rsa recently raised its dividend and bought back some of its debt. "it's been a see-saw sort of session as many traders returned to their trading screens and tried to make sense of the substantial rally many of them may have missed in the last couple of months. that said, volumes remained light and may well do so into next week as the uk's bank holiday yesterday is followed by a us holiday next monday. "the overriding concern of this recent rally has been its lack of volume and today may have marked the first round of sustained profit taking. in the back of many investors' minds is the concern that september is usually a poor month for equities and we haven't got the month off to the best of starts. uk manufacturing data showed a contraction in the sector in august when the market was expecting an expansion and on top of this credit suisse advised their clients to reduce their exposure to equities in both the uk and us." "we expect the data to result in modest upgrades but refrain from classifying the event as transforming. efficacy was good, which should ensure registration but there enough points of interest regarding safety and trial design to provide ammunition to the bears to question the drug's commercial potential." goldman sachs also sounded a note of caution, despite increasing its forecasts: "we are raising our brilinta peak sales forecast to $2.2bn in 2015 (from $1.1 bn) reflecting the powerful study data. as a result, we raise our 2012-15 earnings per share estimates 1% to 10% and our 12-month price target to £30 (from £28); we retain our neutral rating. "although [the trial] was a strong, positive [one], we note that only 10% of patients in the trial were recruited from north america, and that these patients appeared to have had a worse outcome than the trial cohort as a whole, we expect this observation to face close fda regulatory scrutiny and, assuming brilinta faces an advisory committee at some point, will be a key issue for debate."
aggreko powers ahead in rising stock market the global recovery rally continued and the ftse 100 clambered to yet another 10-month high on tuesday but it was the midcap market that provided much of the real news on how british businesses are heading off the recession. the company behind temporary power sources, including at this month's world athletic championships in berlin, faces a more challenging second half because of tough comparatives with 2008 when the beijing olympics and exceptional us storm revenues boosted business. but it still expects profits for the full year to match 2008 and that left the shares up 9.1% at 670p. the debate continues over whether the bluechip index is now headed for a correction or has further to push on. the 40% rally from march's low today prompted a note from analysts at charles stanley because the ftse 100 has already reached their 4900 year-end target. "does this mean that we might be upgrading our expectation for the full year, or do we expect a pull back in the wake of such an almost unprecedented revival in risk appetite?" they ask. "in a nut shell, we expect the latter."
miners, banks and energy stocks drag ftse to august low equity strategist ewen stewart at investec says he set a ftse 100 target of 4,800 at the start of the year. he questions how much further this rally can go given its pace so will not be raising that target. "the market has rallied very close to that (4,800) slightly more quickly than i would have anticipated." "yes, there had been slightly better economic news but let's not forget there are still very notable long-term risks out there." he says the market is unlikely to fall back so far that it goes below 3,000 and sees it being stuck in a range of 4,400 to 4,800. with little due out in the way of corporate news this week the market is likely to take its cues from economic data. uk inflation figures are due out this morning, the bank of england's minutes on wednesday and retail sales on thursday.
ftse 100 down 2%, wall st seen adding to pressure talk that the turning point in the stock market has been reached is growing louder, with the ftse 100 now down 2% and indices in france and germany even harder hit. us futures also point to a drop on wall street when the opening bell tolls later, with traders expecting stock markets there to track the sell-off in asia overnight. the dax in germany is down 2.3% and france's cac 40 is down 2.6%.
caution knocks ftse at start of data-focussed week stock market falls in asia overnight, signs of a faltering us consumer and a growing feeling the ftse's rally had gone a little too far have pushed the london bluechips index down more than 1.8% this morning. the main focus this week will be macroeconomic data rather than results. inflation data on tuesday is expected to show the annual cpi rate slowed to 1.5% in july from 1.8% the month before. rpi is forecast at -.17% from -1.6% in june. on wednesday, the bank of england publishes minutes from its last policy meeting. retail sales data on thursday is expected to show a 0.2% rise in july from 1.2% the month before. public finances data is also due out on thursday. however the data turns out - and many experts caution the uk's recovery is behind the path of france and germany, so there may be some nasty shocks - much of the positive news has been priced into stock markets. still, many see the market putting in more gains by the end of the year even if there is a correction in the near-term. david buik at bgc partners expects the ftse 100 to hit 5,100 by the end of december.
ftse rally falters as us consumers spark caution the stock market's summer rally showed signs of faltering on friday, as bad news from us consumers prompted investors to take profits. the reuters/university of michigan surveys of consumers said its preliminary reading of the index of confidence for august fell to 63.2 from 66.0 in july - well below economists' forecasts for 68.5, according to a reuters poll. tim hughes at ig index comments: "it will be interesting to see next week whether investors show a continued desire to buy into weakness in the market; if the dow continues on its current trajectory, there will be plenty of weakness into which they can buy." "growth in france and germany was tentative and analysts are starting to voice concerns that deflation may be a risk for the us economy as inflation fell more steeply on an annual basis than in more than fifty years. "on the basis of these cold, hard facts, equities are beginning to look severely overbought at current levels. if this is indeed set to be a w-shaped recovery, we may be in for a rocky ride downhill from these levels." the daily telegraph reported that the consortium has approached bankers from credit suisse to prepare a bid for british land that could be worth up to £10bn including debt. british land declined to comment on the report. the shares closed up more than 3.9% at 512.5p. miners also fell as the us sentiment data called the strength on an economic recovery into question and dented metals prices. the company publishes a number of jackson's best known hits including thriller and rock with you through its writer rod temperton. it said "the unexpected death of michael jackson has resulted in an extraordinary surge in the sale of his work." chrysalis flagged up the potential boost later in the year from the the new robbie williams album and hopes for the beatles' digitally re-released repertoire for which it holds certain george martin producer master rights. analyst steve liechti at house broker investec comments: "comments on the fourth quarter imply a much stronger trading period, helped by new releases and current market successes." "we still see good underlying catalogue value and maintain a buy recommendation."
bae torpedo deal lifts shares on lacklustre day for ftse bae bucked the trend of the wider market, which failed to push higher after friday's 10-month closing high. the ftse 100 ended a quiet day down 9.4 points, or just 0.2%, at 4722.2. losses were pared in afternoon trading thanks to some support from wall street after fast-food giant mcdonald's beat expectations with july sales rising 4.3%, helped by strong sales in the uk and france. the dow jones industrial average was down just 16 points at 9354 at the time london closed. but ben cohen at collins stewart retained his "sell" recommendation and cut his price target on catlin to 310p from 320p, citing a disappointing mix of earnings in the results. he says: "we see h1 results as disappointing at a time that peers are comfortably beating expectations... we recognise the breadth of the franchise that has been built up, but these results underline the uneven delivery." "the group is trading resiliently in the current difficult environment, although visibility remains limited."
the patient may be off life support, but there's still a long road to full recovery what's going on? well, the market isn't keen on cash calls, so standard suffered from that, but the broader context is the bulls of bank shares are betting that now is the time to start anticipating economic recovery. their arguments, simply put, are these: first, the government has stabilised the sector; second, bank shares suffered most in the downturn so should be among the biggest beneficiaries when the economy picks up; third, we are two years into the crisis and the tide is beginning to turn. it's all a bit previous. as i keep saying, it's only a matter of months since royal bank of scotland's ability to keep its branches and cash machines open hung by a gossamer thread. if barclays had not carried on doing business with it, the fallen edinburgh giant would not have been able to do so. indeed, rbs, which just scraped into profit with £7.5bn of bad debts, sounded a much more cautious note than lloyds, warning that its operating performance might not improve for a couple of years. it could be even worse. the eighties slump was concentrated in traditional heavy industry; this one is across the board. debt - consumer, corporate and government - is running at very high levels; there will have to be some serious deleveraging. the low interest rate environment is making the debt burden easier to bear, but there are problems ahead when interest rates rise again, possibly a year or 18 months from now. banks face hefty bad loan write-offs for some time to come. even leaving that aside, they cannot pat themselves on the back about a recovery before they have restored lending at sensible levels to small and medium sized firms. the small business sector is a major employer and restoring confidence there is a key element in any revival. the banks' fortunes are obviously harnessed to the economy as a whole. there, the signals are contradictory, not least because of the fragmentation of britain's crunch economy. those still in receipt of a salary or pension and without burdensome borrowings are in many cases better off due to lower interest rates and cheaper prices. that contrasts sharply with those in negative equity, heavy debt or who have lost their job. and, despite a flurry of headlines last week hailing the end of the recession, bank of england governor mervyn king feels it is too early to breathe sighs of relief, pumping a further £50bn into the economy through quantitative easing. this discussion is trickier because the definition of recovery is to some degree subjective. if it assumes a return to pre-crisis conditions, that is nowhere in prospect. if it is taken to mean the very worst is over, the recovery probably has begun. but half the banks are still on life support and the economy is still receiving transfusions of cash. it's going to be a long convalescence - and we can't rule out a relapse.
wall street's slide fails to dent ftse an opening slide on wall street has failed to curb enthusiasm in london, despite increasing jitters in asia that the chinese stock market is heading into bubble territory. us economic data showing that orders for durable goods, excluding cars and planes, rose 1.1% in june, a better performance that the number-crunchers had been expecting, helped wall street reverse an opening slide. an hour after the opening the dow jones is down about 25.24 points at 9071.40 with the ftse 100 index up 38.08 points at 4566.92 points. both indices seem to have shrugged aside increasing worries in asia that a stockmarket bubble is forming in china, as evidenced by the spectacular arrival of china state construction engineering corp on the shanghai exchange overnight. shares in china's largest ipo since petro china in 2007 rose more than 50% on their debut. it is the country's biggest housebuilder and has benefitted from the government's policy of encouraging a boom in infrastructure investment by leaning on the country's banks to increase lending. economists are worried about where this money is going - some of it seems to be finding its way into speculative investments - and its ultimately destabilising effect on the chinese economy and hence the rest of the world. as a result of the jitters, indices across asia closed lower overnight. announcing a 20% drop in first half profits and plans to axe its interim dividend, rexam explained: the rights issue will enable the group to put in place a more conservative and resilient long term capital structure and significantly enhances the prospect of maintaining the group's current investment grade credit rating. the issue will also put rexam in a strong position from which to grow when markets recover. since the interim management statement in may it has become increasingly clear that the effect of the recession on rexam's trading will be deeper and more prolonged than previously thought with cyclical, more premium parts of the business disproportionately impacted by the downturn. destocking has given way to reduced underlying customer demand reducing the group's ability to generate cash and pay down debt. the company wants to get its £2.1bn of debt under control. it has £3.2bn worth of loans and overdrafts and refinanced £1.3bn in the half year. it has already managed to secure another £453m of "bilateral facilities" to underpin its access to liquidity and renegotiated a substantial portion of its £775m revolving credit facility as well as several facilities which were due to mature in 2010. the cost of all this debt, however, has gone up. the group's next major round of refinancing will be in relation to the £495m committed bank facilities due in 2011, followed by a further £904m of bank facilities due in 2012 with £1.062bn, comprising the €700m bond, the us bond and us private placement, due in 2013. the rights issue price of 150p represents a 45.7% discount to yesterday's closing price. we believe consensus (20% below our numbers) underestimates the earnings upside risk from a strong rebound in high-margin retail flows. the price might make a bit of sense if the figure should actually be read in rupees as that would work out at about £30m but sources close to the company branded the report as rubbish. the stock is up 2.75p at 14p.
reckitt misses out as ftse jumps more than 100 points the licence expires on 8 october, and analysts believe the company is likely to see generic competition for the products - which account for some 12% of group profits - almost immediately. credit suisse, while still positive on the company overall, pointed out the potential effect. the bank said: "such a large and growing profit pool will not have gone unnoticed - generic companies already have clearance on the active ingredient in suboxone. does reckitt have a 'silver bullet'? we think not. generic competition we feel sure is both inevitable and likely to be pretty much immediate. we see little that reckitt can do to offset this - its slow-release technology won't get clearance for three to four years, while brands count for very little (virtually nothing) in this field. [reckitt's] 2009 results may be impacted by the exact date that generics go live (a one week delay worth £5m to earnings), but it seems inevitable that generics will be in full force by the year end. thus 2010 forecasts should include the full impact we believe." this 2.57% increase was the best one day performance for the leading index since 24 april and the first time since the end of may that it has been in positive territory three days in a row. investors took heart from this week's bumper figures from goldman sachs and better than expected results from intel, as well as reasonable us manufacturing and inflation numbers. even another jump in uk unemployment could not dampen the positive mood, with analysts pointing out that the number of benefit claims grew by less than forecast. angus campbell, head of sales at capital spreads, said: "the ftse has had a very positive move higher today, catching quite a few people by surprise in the process and often such moves can be compounded by a sudden rush of investors jumping on board to get in while they can and not miss out on any big move higher. "the rally has been broad based with all sectors benefiting and on some pretty solid volumes too. the rate of unemployment in the uk may have risen higher than expected, making for a grim headline figure, however the rise in claimants was the smallest for a year, which investors took as further indication that the worst is over. "the test for the ftse will be the resistance seen around 4350-4400 and whilst today's rally is encouraging, [can] the ftse carry on higher to take out 4500? there's little evidence to show that it can, considering how it has attempted that many times through may and june." "the ghanaian government has at last given formal approval to the jubilee phase 1 development project following the announcement yesterday from kosmos [a partner in the field] that it had secured loans to fund its share of development. this is a case of the paperwork catching up with the engineers as the project has been in construction for some time. "the jubilee field straddles both the deepwater tano and west cape three points license blocks offshore ghana and as result the initial unitisation sees tullow getting 34.7% of the field but with the potential for stake to change as the field comes on stream and more data becomes available. the 34.7% is slightly below the 37% we had anticipated so, in theory, our fair value for tullow should reduce by around 25p. as we have a target price of 1200p and the shares are currently trading at [around] 891p it's a trifle academic at this stage especially as the un-risked upside of tullow's portfolio is substantially higher than our risked fair value target of 1200p."
should we fear a stock market bubble? "i think we are far away from being in a bubble with the uk stock market reasonably priced. it is slap bang in the middle of its historic price-to-earnings range so looks pretty good value to me. when i look at the stock market and compare it to the rates on bank deposit accounts, the alternatives do not look very attractive. the biggest risk is a double dip in the economy, but my view is that it is stabilising. with my personal investments i am happy with equities and if anything am looking to add to them." "you have to be a bit careful in late december and the new year because you tend to get a false market. we have seen the christmas rally that you often get, so will not get a true idea of the market until the second week of january. "most of the markets have had a strong run in 2009. a lot of that has been from the government stimulus that is being slowly withdrawn. so i would not jump on board anything, but if you look at pharmaceuticals, telecoms and defence they are undervalued and look quite good. "they have not bounced back nearly as much as other stocks and have really good yields that look safe. next year could be hard and the stocks that perform well could be different from this year. you want stocks that are visibly earning and not economically sensitive, companies with organic growth and some kind of niche that will trade through difficult conditions." "if you read stockbroker reports many people are worried that 2010 will be a harder year to generate consistent returns... a lot of people have written off the uk market as it is not china or brazil, but it is international in composition. the recovery in the global economy is going to throw up some pockets of growth. it is important to take a long-term view and we are focusing on those with quality growth rather than the cheapest stocks in the market. those in more cyclical areas, that have been the driving force of the rally, will find 2010 a more difficult year." "looking at the ratings in terms of equity yields they are low when compared to the yields from regular interest rates. if you had £1m in the bank it would be doing nothing. there is no reason why we will not see a rise in the ftse to 6000 at some point next year. if you look at the figures from december 1997 then you see we are at roughly the same point as 12 years ago. people forget how little it has moved in the last 12 years. "the market sometimes moves upward at the end of the year with people putting cash in, but the economic trends are broadly positive. the economy is entering a recovery phase with house prices up and revised economic growth figures. the rating of the market is roughly in line with long-term averages. if you look at the hard data, things are clearly looking upwards." "we are still well below where we were 10 years ago in the stock market. you really know when you are in a bubble when people are sitting around coffee talking about equities and how good they are, just like people were with property two or three years ago. it is not like that at the moment so that is a good indicator that we are not in a bubble. equities are never safe in the short term because sentiment can drive the economy down, but in the long term equities offer relative value." "there has been a similar equity market in 2009 to that of 2003 and 2004, but we are now at an inflection point and we are likely to see the market act differently. it is important to look differently at the prospects of the uk economy and the uk stock market. the prospects for the economy remain difficult, but that does not necessarily mean that all uk listed companies will be affected."so far there has been little differentiation as stocks have risen on the tide up from the lows in the market, but now really consistent higher quality companies are beginning to outperform. these are companies with strong market positions and an ability to fund growth here and abroad moving forward.
stock market rally peters out the picture was mirrored on other stock markets across europe. and earlier today japan's nikkei ended the year with a 0.86% drop, dragged down by fears that japan airlines may file for bankruptcy. cameron peacock, market analyst at ig markets, predicted that "after yesterday's continued run gains for european equity markets - albeit in rather thin trading conditions - investors in london may well be inclined to start taking money off the table." today is the city's last full trading session of 2009, and many traders having already closed their books for the year. on new year's eve the london market will only be open until 12.30pm.
chi-med's eastern promise in one sense, chi-med has simply kept to its script. its consumer healthcare business in china has continued to increase sales at a rate of 20%-plus a year. it has also signed a deal with us organics group hain celestial to distribute products such as milk powder. but the other half of chi-med – developing original drugs for a global market – is where the excitement lies. the tale in the next year or two could be a spin-off of medipharma. if so, we should discover whether the analysts are right in thinking that chi-med, at £100m or so, is still grossly undervalued. the answer may well be "yes".
hsbc opens door into china with £5bn flotation hsbc plans to become the first international company to list on the shanghai stock exchange by launching a £5bn share offer to chinese investors in a move that is rich in symbolism. the bank is already well capitalised and does not need the money from flotation, but hsbc is keen to raise its profile with chinese retail investors as it expands its branch network and looks at buying stakes in rival chinese banks. hsbc confirmed that it was planning to list in shanghai, but declined to discuss details and timing. mike trippitt, an analyst at oriel securities, said: "it will be easier for hsbc to grow its operations in china if people there have a financial stake in the brand. this is all about hsbc raising its profile in a market that is crucial to its success." hsbc recently signalled its determination to expand in china and across asia by moving michael geoghegan, its chief executive, from london to be based full-time in hong kong, where hsbc is already quoted. the bank was founded in hong kong and shanghai in 1865, but shifted its headquarters to london in 1993 after acquiring the midland bank. hong kong and china accounted for 40% of hsbc's pretax profits last year and analysts predict this could reach 50% over the next decade. a disastrous foray into the us sub-prime market, where it has been forced to write off billions because of the credit crunch, has persuaded management to return to its roots in the far east, say analysts. beijing has let it be known that it is ready to start allowing foreign companies to list on the chinese mainland, reflecting its ambitions to open up the country's financial sector and transform shanghai into an international financial hub to rival london and new york. lawyers in london say that the china securities regulatory commission is expected to change its laws in january to allow foreign and non-mainland companies to list in shanghai. but the chinese will retain a cap of 20% on the proportion of equity foreign banks can acquire in chinese financial companies. simon maughan, an analyst at mf global, said: "you can't overestimate the importance of china. if the chinese were to move towards more open capital markets, perhaps allowing foreign institutions to invest in chinese government debt, hsbc would be better positioned than any other western bank because it already has such a big presence in hong kong. a listing in shanghai would reinforce its position in the region." hsbc is already the biggest foreign bank in a country where the market potential is viewed as vast. "currying favour with the chinese is both sensible and necessary if you are serious about growing in a nation with 1.3 billion people," said maughan. the british bank is poised to buy some of the asian retail and commercial assets being divested by royal bank of scotland. the two sides have struck a deal for the assets in china, india and malaysia, but the transaction is subject to regulatory approval in the three countries.
dubai market shows signs of life as uk creditors circle dubai world, whose assets include p&o ports and the qe2, has asked lenders, among them royal bank of scotland (rbs), for a debt standstill till 2010; a move which raised fears the global economy could be entering a dangerous new phase and triggered a wider global share sell-off. four british banks, which have a combined exposure of around $5bn, have formed a creditors group with two local banks led by the accounting firm kpmg, and are set to meet with dubai world officials in the next couple of days. in heavy share trading today – the first transactions since public holiday in the region began in the middle of last week – the main dubai index rose to 1,853 points. sentiment in the wider middle east region also improved. the stock market in neighbouring oil-rich abu dhabi surged ahead 4% to 2,673 points, its biggest one-day gain since march, while markets in kuwait and saudi arabia were also up. "today was an expected performance for both (uae) markets. however, i expected a stronger performance from dubai, more aggressive volumes," said chamel fahmy, a regional senior sales trader at beltone financial. "institutions are more concerned with the effect of the dubai debt on the real estate market, we could see dubai prices going down by [a further] 30-35%," he added. oman's top banks admitted today they had a total exposure of $77m (£52m) to the troubled conglomerate dubai world, sending their shares down nearly 6%. dubai world, a partly state-owned conglomerate, has been at the heart of the extraordinary growth surge in dubai over recent years which has dramatically changed the physical landscape and is behind the palm-shaped islands that are being developed for luxury homes and hotels. the company is also involved in projects around the world, including gulf banks, ports in 50 countries and a six-tower hotel-entertainment complex in las vegas. dubai world requested a payment standstill on 25 november for $3.52bn worth of islamic bonds maturing this month as it tried to restructure $26bn worth of debt. efg hermes, a regional investment bank, thinks dubai in total could owe as much as $150bn – twice the size of the economy and two–and–a-half times its officially declared debt. the debt standstill statement took the financial markets by surprise because many investors had expected the dubai government – or the nearby abu dhabi one – would step in and bail out such a key middle east investment vehicle rather than see it publicly flounder. the default also played into wider fears that global stock markets had risen to unsustainable levels and company values did not reflect the continuing fragility of the world economy. the large exposure to the debt crisis of banks such as rbs are a major embarrassment at a time when they are trying to rebuild public confidence following their own government bailouts. rescuing the british banking system is estimated by the national audit office to have cost the equivalent of more than £5,500 for every family in the country but rbs directors are threatening to resign if they cannot approve a £1.5bn bonus bonanza to their own staff.
new look hires city veteran as chairman ahead of flotation the move comes just a day after new look announced it had appointed three investment banks to mastermind its flotation, which is expected early in the new year. new look, which has more than 1,000 stores in 30 countries and employs 25,000 staff, is currently owned by private equity groups permira and apax partners, and the chain's founder, tom singh. they bought the business off the stock exchange five years ago for £800m and have already recouped their original investment by piling debt, currently totalling £1bn, into the business. the latest flotation will be the second time in two years that the owners have tried to cash in their chips. a first attempt, with a sale to other private equity groups, failed when no one was prepared to pay the £1.8bn asking price. this time they are more hopeful of achieving that target. the chain has performed well through the recession. gildersleeve joined tesco in 1965 and was a director for 20 years until 2004. he is currently chairman of carphone warehouse and a director at british land. he has also held boardroom positions at emi, gallaher, lloyds tsb and vodafone. new look's chief executive, carl mcphail, said the change of chairman was part of "a planned transition in the next phase of new look's development" and that wrigley would remain "a close friend of new look". on wednesday, new look appointed jp morgan cazenove, deutsche bank and credit suisse as advisers, although a decision on the precise timing of the float is not expected until after the key christmas trading period is over. new look is among a number of groups preparing to float next year. others include merlin, the leisure group behind alton towers and warwick castle, retailer pets at home and the superdry fashion chain. the first to go will provide a crucial litmus test of investors' enthusiasm.
dubai shares plummet as crisis continues today, many investors in the middle east will get their first opportunity to respond to the crisis - as trading has been suspended since the middle of last week for the eid al-adha holiday. these debts include nakheel's $3.5bn (£2.1bn) sukuk bond which was due for repayment on december 14. the crisis began last week when nakheel sought a six-month delay on paying this off. the sell-off has gathered a bit of pace since trading began - with the main abu dhabi index now down 8.24% at 2670, a drop of 239 points. it is not allowed to fall by more than 10% in one day, so regulators could step in and halt trading if the slide continues. the national bank of abu dhabi is down 9.7%. in dubai, its main share index is 7.19% lower at 1942 points. these falls come despite efforts by business leaders to calm the situation. riad kamal, chief executive of construction firm arabtec, has said he is confident that dubai will not default on its debts. "dubai should be given time to restructure its debt. i'm not going to lose sleep over this issue," kamal told reuters. we are continuing to monitor the situation following the unexpected announcement by the government of dubai regarding a standstill on the debt of dubai world and its nakheel subsidiary, which has had an adverse impact on financial markets. the imf's statement underlines how much pressure is on the uae to rescue dubai. yesterday's launch of the special liquidity scheme could help.... the japanese prime minister has also just been talking about the situation - telling reporters in tokyo that he "remains cautious over dubai credit worries". another sign that the world market are feeling more optimistic is that the us dollar has lost ground against many other currencies, which has helped to push the oil price up. despite the state of the us economy, investors still seek the safety of the greenback at times of crisis. over in the uae, the main abu dhabi share index has not clawed back any ground - it is currently 8.3% lower. according to the daily telegraph, a dubai government spokesman has said that the game will 'date quickly' ... the abu dhabi securities exchange (its main market), has tumbled 8.3% - its biggest one-day fall ever. it lost 241.92 points to 2668.23. in dubai, its main index fell by 7.3% - which is its biggest fall since 8th october 2008 when the banking crisis was at its height. dubai world ended down nearly 15%. with the ftse 100 now down by 50 points at 5195, there is growing concern that we have not heard more from the abu dhabi central bank about its rescue plan ... he is one of the best things to have happened to british racing since the invention of the horseshoe. but there are fears in the industry that he may have to cut back, should dubai end up defaulting on its debts. we'll let you know as soon as there are any developments. until then, thanks for reading and for the comments. after decades of unprecedented growth and expansion dubai's overheated economy is reaching its melting point. dubai world, the state-owned real-estate and ports giant that has driven much of the economic growth in the city-state in recent years, has asked for a moratorium on its debt
gordon brown attempts to play down global impact of dubai crisis the prime minister said this morning that dubai's problems were "a setback", during a summit meeting of commonwealth leaders in trinidad and tobago. "my own view is the world financial system is stronger now and able to deal with the problems that arise," said brown. "i think we will find it is not on the scale of previous problems we have dealt with. i think global recovery has depended on monetary action and fiscal stimulus," he added. brown was speaking before shares on wall street fell less than feared, which helped to drive the ftse 100 back upwards to close almost 1% higher than yesterday. brown also said that he had spoken to senior figures in dubai, and was confident that their plans to redevelop the ports they own in the uk would still go ahead. "the world economy has put in place mechanisms by which when a problem starts in one country we are in a far better position to monitor it and to gauge the effects," brown said in port of spain. the prime minister said that the major impediment to the plans for british ports were planning restrictions. dubai world, the government-owned conglomerate that is now struggling to repay its debt, operates through its dubai ports world subsidiary container terminals at tilbury, near london, and southampton. it owns p&o, and is the third-largest port operator in the world. it has plans for regeneration projects include chelsea harbour, regent quarter at king's cross, london gateway terminal and shell haven. brown said: "the problem essentially for the dubai ports has been issues relating to planning in britain. this is potential project for britain that will bring a large number of jobs. it has to go through a large number of hurdles." brown attempted to sound an upbeat note as he awoke in port of spain – after a late-night flight to the commonwealth heads of government meeting – to the news from dubai. "this is a setback but i think you will find this is not on a scale where previous problems have been dealt with," he said. the prime minister said he did not believe the crisis in dubai would threaten the world economic recovery. he cited the sophisticated monitoring of financial markets and the unprecedented fiscal and monetary stimuli over the last year. "there is five trillions of fiscal stimulus in the world economy – either had or about to have – and that is what is bringing the economy up. the monetary easing, with low interest rates and with quantitative easing in britain and america – these have been the most important thing in giving the world economy a boost. "you are obviously going to have setbacks with a bank here or an organisation there that has had problems. but i believe the world has got a better way of monitoring what is happening and measuring the effects of this so that despite setbacks we can be assured we are still moving forward. "you are dealing with one set of issues related to dubai. dubai is part of the uae, it is part of a wider enterprise. we are going to have issues like this because of the fallout over the last two years. but my own view is that the world financial system is stronger now and it will be able to deal with problems as they arise." brown was speaking after the london stock market shrugged off an early plunge in share prices, following efforts by the emirate's ruling family to calm the panic. after a bout of heavy selling in asia, the mood in the city was that traders are trying to catch their breath following the shock on wednesday when dubai world asked to defer repaying some debts for six months. however, shares did also fall on wall street when trading began today, following yesterday's holiday. sheikh ahmed bin saeed al maktoum, the uncle of dubai's ruler sheikh mohammed bin rashid al maktoum, attempted to calm the situation last night. "our intervention in dubai world was carefully planned and reflects its specific financial position," he said in a statement. "the government is spearheading the restructuring of this commercial operation in the full knowledge of how the markets would react. we understand the concerns of the market and the creditors in particular. however, we have had to intervene because of the need to take decisive action to address its particular debt burden." the ftse 100 tumbled by 70 points, or nearly 1.4%, to 5123 when trading began. but with share prices volatile, it clawed back all these losses and closed 51.6 points higher at 5245.7, up 0.99%. there was relief that the dow jones fell by less than 2% when the half-day session began on wall street, having been closed yesterday for thanksgiving. the index was just 1.3% lower at 10330 when trading ended in the city. traders in london were not alarmed by a report that britain's banks are exposed to almost $50bn of uae debt, more than any other country. earlier the nikkei 225 closed 3.2% lower, with japan's biggest banks leading the fallers. hong kong's hang seng index fell by 5.3%. major building firms in asia also fell sharply, as traders anticipated that the dubai building boom was over. today, dubai itself came under more pressure. the cost of insuring the emirate's debt increased again, with five-year credit default swaps jumping by 129 basis points to 670 basis points this morning. credit default swaps for dubai world ports jumped even more, from 608 basis points to 818.5. these changes indicate that the markets believe there is more chance of dubai defaulting on its debts. and the value of an islamic bond issued by nakheel, dubai world's property division, and due for repayment in december, almost halved. this is the debt which dubai world hopes to avoid redeeming for six months. predictions that dubai could drag the world economy downwards again knocked $5.50 off the price of a barrel of oil, to $72.49. many stock markets in the middle east are closed for the feast of eid al-adha, making it harder to know how the region will respond to dubai's woes. "this certainly proves that the perceived immunity of the gulf region from the credit crunch is a mirage and also puts doubts in investors' minds on what else they are being economical on the truth with," said philip gillett of ig index. "i think it is the timing that has caused less violent reaction than expected, with the us holiday and eid, so should be interesting this afternoon," he added. manus cranny, senior market commentator at mf global spreads, said that some traders in london have been buying into the banking and mining shares in the search for bargains after yesterday's sell-off. "only time will tell whether this is bottom fishing or if it will turn into a deep-sea dive ... this bounce off the bottom in london could be a bigger mirage than the daily haze that shrouds dubai," cranny said. it also emerged this morning that, according to jp morgan, royal bank of scotland has been the biggest loan arranger for dubai world since january 2007. analysts at bank of america/merrill lynch said this morning that the statement from the dubai ruling family indicates that they are determined to restructure dubai world's debt despite the impact on the financial markets. "the restructuring is likely to make the new issuances for uae much harder in the short term and the implicit abu dhabi support is no longer taken for granted. hence, we expect a further pressure on the banking sector," they said.
biggest daily fall for ftse since march on dubai and lse woes a day after reporting falling profits because of growing competition, the lse inadvertantly played into its rivals' hands as traders found themselves unable to do business during a key part of the day, with all order driven securities put in an auction period. this outage followed a number of recent technical glitches for the lse, and comes just over a year after a seven hour halt in trading. manoj ladwa, senior trader at etx capital, said: as far as glitches go, the london stock exchange couldn't have picked a worse day. traders were sat at their desks twiddling their thumbs for three hours while the lse sorted out their issues, although those with access switched to trading on alternative exchanges. once trading did resume on the main bourse, traders continued dumping stocks. the banking sector was hit the hardest as concerns over exposure to the middle east forced traders to reduce positions. ironically, the lse itself was caught up in the middle eastern problems, since borse dubai holds a 20.56% stake in the company. with the prospect of this being dumped on the market, not to mention its trading problems, shares in the lse fell 60p to 754.5p. rival bats told its clients they could continue to trade during the outage, while chi-x complained that instigating an auction period meant trading could not be routed to its systems. it called on the financial services authority to get involved to ensure "the continuation of trading and an orderly market." investors' nerves are likely to be severely tested before the middle eastern markets and wall street reopen, as concerns grow about the financial health of dubai and indeed the whole gulf region. joshua raymond, market strategist at city index said: whether or not the problems at dubai will be enough to create spin off affects into other sectors remains to be seen but this cannot be discarded in the near term. the key issue now is that any company that has direct or indirect links to dubai now has a question mark over it and with the markets making some strong gains of late, investors have taken no chances today and have moved to cash in their profits. the combination of a full valuation, inadequate diversification, and regulatory risks around its main annuity product line, high risky asset leverage and operational risks around the strategic shift to savings products drives our new sell recommendation. the company has recently been the subject of bid speculation but we believe that an acquisition is unlikely unless the regulatory risks around capital are fully known. this is not expected to be clarified till mid-2010.
london stock exchange crash halts trading the system ground to a halt at 10.35 this morning and did not resume until 2pm while the organisation searched for the fault. a spokesman said: "there were connectivity problems for a number of customers. some customers were having intermittent connectivity. some people could execute trades and some people couldn't. "we went into an auction call period where everyone could put trades on or take them off the system, but there was no execution of trade. the underlying order book was still working." today's problems come just a day after the lse reported a 38% fall in pre-tax profits to £79.4m for the six months to september. the business is facing lower share trading volumes as well as increasing competition from rival trading platforms such as chi-x and turquoise. during october an average £5bn worth of shares a day were traded on the lse. in september last year, city traders were also left powerless when a computer crash paralysed the market for seven hours during what should have been one of its busiest sessions of the year. the stoppage – the longest in more than eight years – meant investors were unable to cash in on a stock market boom triggered by the us government's bailout of the huge mortgage lenders fannie mae and freddie mac before the financial crisis struck just days later.
companies gambling on stock market bounce to avoid closing pension deficits hundreds of britain's biggest companies have gambled on a strong bounce in the stock market and a surge in profits to avoid closing funding gaps this year in their pension schemes. the pensions regulator said today that many of the 7,200 firms with final salary schemes were delaying making payments for several years after they included predictions of rising asset prices in calculations to determine how much money they set aside for pension funds. companies also justified delaying payments to their funds after they agreed with the regulator that top-up funds would be more affordable in the future when profits were higher. the regulator said it was monitoring recovery plans following concerns that agreements made before the recession were overly optimistic. the report by the regulator is likely to spark further debate over the funding problems faced by britain's final salary pension schemes. in his last report the regulator said the collective deficit of all funds was around £200bn. rises in life expectancy, low interest rates and predictions of possible increases in inflation are expected to increase funding costs and widen the shortfall in many schemes. the value of some companies, including british airways, is already smaller than the pension scheme they are obliged to fund. small changes in pension liabilities can add hundreds of millions of pounds to funding costs. earlier this year the regulator signalled he would take a hard line against employers that sought to delay payments in order to drive up profits and pay dividends to shareholders. but in recent months he has taken a softer line and agreed several recovery plans that extend payments beyond a standard 10-year target. david norgrove, the chairman of the pensions regulator, said schemes were divided into three groups depending on when they made their funding predictions. he said deals with the regulator made several years ago would need to be watched closely. "the three tranches of scheme valuations have been conducted in very different economic circumstances and this analysis explores some of the effects that the downturn, and other factors such as longevity improvements, have had on scheme funding," he said. "we urge trustees to continue to take a prudent approach to assessing schemes' technical provisions, to maintain an honest and open dialogue with employers, and to remain aware of the changing economic situation as they focus on the long-term interests of scheme members. the regulator will continue to focus on this shared goal." employers are expected to suffer a dramatic rise in pension costs this year after a fall in bond yields used to calculate occupational scheme funding positions. pension experts report an acceleration of scheme closures in recent months as finance directors seek to offset escalating costs by minimising the number of people eligible for generous pensions.
ftse finishes higher as miners make up for poor gdp numbers the worst uk recession on record following a shock fall in third quarter gdp - and the stock market moves higher, led by mining groups and banks. traders explained the discrepancy by saying the ftse 100 had long ceased to be representative of the uk economy, with global influences proving a far more important factor. so a rebound in metal prices - with copper up to a one year high - lifted mining shares and thus the rest of the market. at the same time credit suisse upgraded the whole mining sector: we raise mining to benchmark (having downgraded in late may), buying into any weakness - and maintain our overweight of steel (a position we have had since march). we reiterate our overweight on vedanta, and believe our thesis remains still intact (£17 per share for 'business as is', £15 for 'confirmed growth', £20 for 'cost reduction' and £6 for 'further growth'), even without a further commodity price rally.the key reason why this valuation anomaly remains, we think, is vedanta pushing through with its programmes aggressively in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, contributing to its towering growth profile, when other balance-sheet constrained companies were pulling back. the vast majority of the growth comes through in the next two calendar years and hence investors will not need to wait too long before the impact of the growth flows through to earnings. we acknowledge the corporate risks - e.g. [the current bid battle for] asarco, abandoned corporate structure simplification move - but think this is more than reflected in the price. with the majority of companies listed on the london stock exchange relying on revenues from outside of the uk, today's poor uk gdp figures have largely been shrugged off, with investors preferring to concentrate on the us earnings season. the ftse 100 did however fail to hold above 5280, a key resistance level, and this could put a roof on gains when the market re-opens next week. we also saw a number of investors cite falling us markets as motivation to lock in profits. it also emphasised its caution with regards to takeovers. it was outbid in an auction for a "significant" acquisition - supposedly by a private equity group - but the downside of that is it will take a £1.9m charge for transaction costs. all in all though, the update lifted filtrona's shares by 13p to 172.8p and analyst andrew darke at ambrian issued a buy note on the business. as hardy is not operator and therefore unable to dictate the pace of drilling, we would wait until drilling of the next well is confirmed before considering getting back into the stock. as such, we are downgrading hardy to underperform from outperform and lower our target price to 250p from 400p.
ftse 100 shrugs off poor gdp figures as miners gain ground if there was ever a clear sign of the disconnection between the uk stock market and the uk economy, it has come in the reaction of the ftse 100 to the shock gdp figures. the biggest influence of course is the mining sector, which is affected by global issues and not just uk economic news, no matter how bad. so with copper up again at a year's high and gold holding firm, investors are still backing the sector. we reiterate our overweight on vedanta, and believe our 'path to 50' thesis remains still intact (£17 per share for 'business as is', £15 for 'confirmed growth', £20 for 'cost reduction' and £6 for 'further growth'), even without a further commodity price rally. the key reason why this valuation anomaly remains, we think, is vedanta pushing through with its programmes aggressively in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, contributing to its towering growth profile, when other balance-sheet constrained companies were pulling back. the vast majority of the growth comes through in the next two calendar years and hence investors will not need to wait too long before the impact of the growth flows through to earnings. we acknowledge the corporate risks - e.g. [the current bid battle for] asarco, abandoned corporate structure simplification move - but think this is more than reflected in the price. meanwhile credit suisse upgraded the whole mining sector: we raise mining to benchmark (having downgraded in late may), buying into any weakness-and maintain our overweight of steel (a position we have had since march). we upgrade mining because: a) global excess liquidity is at an all-time high and leads commodities by a year; b) industrial commodities tend to peak four months after the peak in ip momentum (ie, the middle of the first quarter of 2010) and when manufacturing inventories peak; c) china should grow at 9-10% gdp until 2011 and commodity prices can rise even when china's investment growth slows (as in 2004); d) china may diversify some of its $2.3tn of foreign exchange reserves into commodities given its strategic needs and an undervalued currency); e) companies, stock prices and analysts in general are discounting prices 20-45% below spot; f) unusually, the sector has lagged emerging markets. what stops us from going overweight mining is inventory build in china, china's investment share of gdp standing at 42% and the seasonality of commodity prices. investors continue to hold onto their long positions across all the main indexes with some adding to positions on yesterday's dip below 5200. with microsoft reporting later and uk gdp numbers disappointing, stock markets could be in for a volatile end to the week.
general election 2010: can dow jones index predict uk election winner? as britain finally goes to the polls, one of the more esoteric indicators of who might lead the next government – the us stock market – is predicting a win for the conservative party. but the weakness in equity markets this week has seen the dow swing from supporting labour to backing a conservative victory. the dow started last week at 11205 – its highest point since the election was called and well above its 10969 close on 6 april. but last night the dow closed down at 10868. as the oldest stock market index for which data is readily available, the dow jones industrial average, established in 1896, provides an intriguing and consistent indicator of uk election results. the only setbacks to the dow's otherwise unblemished record came in the elections of 1987 and 2005. however, in both those elections the prime ministers who won the voters' support did not see out their full term. margaret thatcher won the 1987 election but was subsequently replaced by john major. tony blair won the 2005 election but later gave way to gordon brown. what makes the dow's consistency more compelling is that there are no obvious market factors which influence its performance and the data spans times of war, recession, crises and disasters and bull and bear markets. nor is there any correlation between the rate of growth in the dow and the uk election. it took the dow 28 years to double to 500, 16 to double to 1,000, 15 to double to 2,000, 8 years to reach 4,000 and 2 years to double to 8,000 in 1997. since 1997, the year the current labour party came to power, the dow breached 14,000 in 2007 but has still, after 13 years, not doubled up on the 8,000 level. the performance of the dow over the course of an election campaign may regularly predict the winning party but gives no insight into that party's majority, or indeed whether it has one. a big movement does not mean a big majority. when stanley baldwin led the conservatives to power in 1924 with a massive 210-seat majority, the dow jones had fallen by just one point in predicting his victory. however, ahead of the last hung parliament in 1974, the movement on the dow was just 5 points representing a rise of less than 1%. based on the 6 april 2010 close, a 1% movement on the dow would be 106 points. last night the dow closed 101 points below its level at the start of the election campaign. the dow is therefore in hung parliament territory and while it and the ftse 100 are pointing to the conservatives as the winning party, the dow is also fulfilling conditions which could point to a strong showing for the liberal democrats. the ftse 100 closed at 5780.4 on 6, april and at yesterday's close at 5341.9 is still well down on the campaign opening level and thus favouring david cameron. the liberal democrats must go back to the early 20th century to find any comfort from the dow's performance. the last time the liberal party, as it then was, formed a government after an election held on a day when the us market was open was in january 1911. the key for the liberal democrats was that the victory came on a day when, for the second election in succession, the dow closed at a level still below its previous closing high for that century achieved on a uk election day. the dow's 20th century election day peak was achieved on 13 february 1906 when it closed at 100. the dow closed at 89 on the day of the following election and at 85 when the liberals formed a government in 1911. the 21st century peak for the dow on a uk election day came in june 2001 when it closed at 11090. at the last election in 2005 the dow closed at 10340. with the dow below that 11090 election day peak last night, the liberal democrats will be hoping history repeats itself.
greek rescue fears hit global stock markets spanish prime minister josé luis rodríguez zapatero was forced to deny market rumours his country would ask for €280bn from the european union, something he described as "complete madness". but spain's stock market has lost nearly 5% today, while germany's dax is down more than 2% and france's cac is around 3% lower. portugal's psi 20 is also down around 4%, while the cost of protecting the debt of a number of european countries has also jumped. the new york stock exchange was more than 200 points lower in early trading, while the ftse 100 closed down more than 2.5% or 142 points at 5411. the euro has tumbled to a one-year low against the dollar, down 1% to $1.3048. banking shares are among the major fallers, on concerns about their exposure to greece and the other european countries. miners are also under pressure after a new australian tax was proposed over the weekend which could knock their earnings and delay development projects. sterling-priced bullion hit a high of £783.33 an ounce and gold also set records in euros and swiss francs. spot gold in dollars hit $1,188.86 an ounce, the highest since early december. german economy minister rainer brüderle added to the uncertainty by telling reuters that the €110bn package was not intended to cover greece's entire financial requirements for the next three years. instead, brüderle suggested, greece will need to return to the financial markets in perhaps 18 months to satisfy its borrowing needs. brüderle's warning helped to knock the greek banking sector down by almost 6% today in athens, where public sector workers began a two-day strike in protest at the austerity measures demanded by the international monetary fund. the cost of insuring greek debt from default rose, wiping out some of monday's falls. spanish and portuguese credit default swaps were also up, showing there was still concern that the crisis would spread from athens to the eurozone's weaker members. germany continued to take a tough line against greece, having finally agreed to contribute €22bn to the rescue effort. finance minister wolfgang schäuble said that greece would be plunged into insolvency if it failed to meet its promises to raise taxes across the economy, increase the retirement age to 65, and cut the size of its public sector. "if there are any violations, payments will be stopped. then athens will once again be threatened with bankruptcy," schäuble told the rheinische post newspaper. shortly before midday, the credit default swap on greek five-year bonds rose to 674 basis points (bps), from 646.5 in new york trading last night. spanish five-year credit default swaps rose to 166.4bps, from 157.7bps while their portuguese equivalent rose to 281.8bps from 275.3bps. the gap between the yield on german 10-year bonds and their portuguese and spanish equivalents also rose. lazards, the investment bank with a long history of debt restructuring deals, said that it has been hired to advise the greek government on general financial matters.
stock market turmoil: city reaction on the uk election … he told sky news: "what everyone wants is boring predictable stability. if in a week's time there is still a squabble then i repeat, the markets will punish us with higher interest rates." clarke said that a downgrading of the uk's credit rating was likely as a result of no party winning an overally majority. "ahead of the election we saw the risk of downgrade at close to 50% - far higher than the reuters consensus of 10%. on the basis of the election outcome as it looks now, a downgrade looks to be the most likely outcome." "the markets are in a nervous mood for lots of reasons. any sort of constitutional stand-off or uncertainty sends out the wrong signal not just to domestic investors but international domestics who will be very puzzled by what's going on." "if there is a coalition, i would like to see them come up with a spending review as quickly as possible and the conservatives – or the other party in the coalition – back it up. these three parties have got to see that this is a big crisis, there could be a sterling crisis, a gilts crisis. markets have been extraordinarily complacent about the prospect of a hung parliament. moody's recently said it may be a good thing if there was a coalition. i was staggered by that." he said that if the conservatives formed a minority government, they may be reluctant to cut the deficit too quickly for fear of being challenged to another election which they may lose. "fiscal tightening on the scale needed to get back to fiscal sustainability may well not be politcially sustainable with aw minority government." "you probably couldn't get a worse result for the market with no party gaining a mandate to form a government and the most likely coalition combination, labour and the lib dems, not having enough seats between them to form a majority government." "the worst thing for markets would be a coalition government failing in a few months and a new election being called. this would intensify the pressure on ratings agencies to downgrade the uk's sovereign rating from aaa and make fiscal consolidation even more difficult." "the longer any political discussions [over forming a coalition] drag on for, the more nervous financial markets can expect to become, standing to weaken further both sterling and uk equities." parker told bloomberg television that the liberal democrats' expected insistence on electoral form in return for forming a possible coalition with labour "could be a negative for the market" as "markets want focus on how to address the budget deficit [first]". lewis told bloomberg: "this is going to be a normal correction – we are in a sideways volatile era you get after a deep recession. it's too soon to call and end to the recovery in the economy or stock markets." lannoo told bloomberg in brussels that policymakers and politicians did not understand the markets' reaction to greece's financial crisis. "they lack understanding. they can't just say the markets are speculators. they can only react on a signal and they don't have one [right now]. they have to listen to them because the next bubble will be government debt." he said that he did not expect today's emergency eurozone summit to result in a wideranging enough response to shore up markets and prevent contagion to weaker european economies like spain and portugal.
reckitt disappoints as ftse falls 2.6% on greek junk rating as leading shares suffered their biggest one day fall since november on sovereign debt worries, the consumer goods company behind the likes of cillit bang and vanish was a major faller after its results disappointed investors. at first glance a 15% increase in first quarter operating profit to £348m looked impressive, with a strong start to the year and delays to generic competition to its suboxone heroin substitute. on top of that it revealed an office of fair trading enquiry into alleged anti-competitive behaviour concerning its gaviscon heartburn treatment, for which it plans to make a provision. in theory the oft could fine reckitt up to 10% of its £8bn total turnover, if it rules against the company. analysts james edwardes jones and martin dolan at execution noble said: we are not blown away by either the quantity or quality of these results and remain holders. this will not go down as a vintage set of results by reckitt's standards. in large part this is a function of the height to which they have raised the bar when it comes to reporting. but it has to be said that underlying revenue growth of 5% is at the lower end of consumer companies that have reported so far and is unusually no better than reckitt's guidance. and while net income of £348m exceeded consensus expectations of £341m it was some way short of the most optimistic estimates, including our own £366m.
cuts jeopardise solar utility ipo a plan to set up an innovative "green" utility with a £1bn flotation on the london stock market risks being blown off course due to financial problems in the eurozone. an engyco spokesman said €3bn of potential investment was at stake if madrid introduced plans to reduce solar subsidies, which he believed would only save ministers €420m. city analysts specialising in the clean-technology sector believe there is little chance of engyco being launched in the next couple of weeks as scheduled given the negative noises coming out of madrid. "this is nothing less than a catastrophe" for investors, said stephane aderca, an energy analyst at liberum capital in london. "we had believed that a promise [to pay a certain level of subsidy] is a promise. going back on a promise brings the whole thing into question." spain's government has sucked in an estimated €18bn in solar-power projects since 2008 by offering generous public subsidies but is now looking at cutting back as the economy suffers. the state has the authority to cut prices paid to operating renewable power plants under a 2007 law, according to an industry ministry spokesman who declined to be identified. all options are being assessed for a new strategic plan this year, he told local media, in comments that led some spanish solar and wind developer shares to fall over 4% at the end of last week.
deutsche bank says tory victory best for uk stock market well here's a surprise. or possibly not. the city thinks a conservative victory in the forthcoming election would be the best outcome for the stock market. the best result for uk equities is likely to be an outright victory for the conservative party. although an outright labour victory would help create certainty, the lack of urgency in their deficit reduction plans may be negative for gilt yields and may alert the rating agencies. but he adds a caveat: if gilt yields aren't negatively impacted by a labour victory then their 'spending for longer' policy may actually be better for markets than a conservative administration committed to fiscal cut-backs. ironically mild sovereign concerns are also positive for uk equities. around 65% of ftse 100 revenues come from overseas and therefore benefit from currency weakness. clearly there is a fine line here and the risk is that sovereign weakness eventually hits gilt yields. so arguably the most important thing to watch in the days, weeks and months ahead is how gilt yields respond to the new administration. if they can retain the confidence of the gilt market then we can have a more optimistic path ahead than if they lose such confidence. on a hung parliament, deutsche says: as for a conservative majority: and finally, if labour manage to buck the polls and hold on to power: some of the companies exposed to spending cuts that may have underperformed in anticipation of a conservative win may see a relief rally (mainly smaller companies). however, the problem of government finances remains and there is no guarantee that the risk of a sovereign downgrade would be averted. a continuation of the current loose policy framework is likely to be inflationary and bearish for gilts. we may see better performances from it services, aerospace and the housebuilders (top pick barratt) if labour retain a majority.
barclays executive nets £9m in shares payout although not on barclays' board, ricci's dealings have been disclosed because he is deemed to be a "person discharging managerial responsibility" after joining the executive committee in november 2009. it is difficult to ascertain how many shares he continues to hold as the bank is not required to provide such information.
falkland islands drilling disappoints for desire the prospect of a new oil boom off the coast of the falklands islands has been dealt a heavy blow after the first well yielded disappointing results. desire petroleum told the stock market this morning that exploratory drilling beneath the seabed surrounding the south atlantic territory had found oil deposits, but warned that early evidence suggests they may not be commercially viable. the bad news sent its shares tumbling more than 50%, and hit other companies in the sector. desire was the first company to put ocean guardian to use. it dug more than 3,500 metres, and hit hydrocarbon deposits around 2,550 metres. however, early analysis showed "that oil may be present in thin intervals but that reservoir quality is poor". it warned that until it has analysed the data further it will not know whether the well needs to be "drilled deeper, suspended for testing or plugged and abandoned". shares in desire plunged by nearly 60% when trading began, down 58p at 41p. rockhopper exploration, which owned 7% of desire's well, tumbled 35%. desire is expected to announce further results from the well, called liz 14/19-1, later this week. alan sinclair, analyst at stockbrokers seymour pierce, argued that all may not be lost. "on balance, whilst the market may have been looking for seagull-scorching test results from liz, it should be borne in mind that this is the first of a potential six-well programme by desire. it is encouraging that initial indications suggest that potentially all the ingredients – reservoir, trap and hydrocarbons – are present in the general area," he wrote in a research note.
lloyds banking chief in line for £6m cash and shares payout the 5.1m shares – currently worth £3.2m – were made under a long-term plan and come on top of 3.6m shares worth almost £2m when awarded at 55p last year and will pay out in 2012 depending performance targets are reached. he also has a £1.1m salary and benefits deal. angry shareholders, including uk financial investments – which looks after the taxpayers' stake in the bailed-out banks – appear to have convinced the bank's remuneration committee to promise to take more care in deciding bonuses next year. in his statement in the annual report, berndt said: "reflecting shareholder concern on this matter, the committee will review performance against the targets for the 2010 plans, taking into account the overall operating performance in the business in determining how much any bonus will be paid out. "the committee also reserves the right to exercise its discretion in reducing any payment that otherwise would have been earned, if they deem this appropriate." but he also expresses concern about the overall pay levels. "the committee does have concerns that by continuing to hold base pay levels at 2008 levels, remuneration for the executive directors is likely to become uncompetitive versus our peer group," he said. daniels' base salary of £1m is enhanced by benefits that took his total pay to £1.1m – down on the £1.5m he received in 2008. truett tate, who runs the wholesale bank, was the highest paid director on the board with a £640,000 salary topped by a £1.1m bonus to take his total to £1.8m. finance director tim tookey had a £1.1m bonus to take his pay to £1.7m, while helen weir, who heads the retail bank, had a £1m bonus to take home £1.7m. the other boardroom executive archie kane who runs the investment arm received £1.5m, including a £885,000 bonus. the bonuses are paid in shares and will be released in 2012. the annual report shows that former chairman sir victor blank, who was forced to promise to step down before last year's annual meeting and eventually left in september, continued to be paid until the end of january 2010. he donated the £213,333 he received since september to charity. until then he received £683,000. the new chairman sir win bischoff is on £700,000. a spokesman for lloyds stressed that the boardroom bosses would only receive the shares they had been awarded if the performance conditions were met. "they will only be awarded if very significant value is created for shareholders," the spokesman said.
will japan's investment funds blossom again? neptune's economist, james dowey, chips in with dismal figures on japan's gdp. it's ¥500tn (£3.7tn), but was at the same nominal level more than a decade ago. this is a country that is flatlining. how do corporates react in such an unfavourable environment? the answer is to cut investment, capital expenditure and wages. and in aggregate, it means no one increases their bottom line. companies can't raise profitability and face a vicious downward spiral. so why has he brought a group of financial journalists to tokyo? to write that investors should dump his fund? this has got to be the oddest press trip on record … but taylor hasn't lost his marbles. he doesn't buy japan. what he buys is japanese companies. in sector after sector, he says he can find three or four companies that are world class and which are often the dominant global player in their market. he takes us to toray industries. in the 1950s it was competing against britain's courtaulds in the rayon market. soon, toray was facing the same sort of price competition that drove courtaulds from the market. but instead of rolling over it invested in research and development, seeking new markets for materials. now it's the world leader in carbon-fibre technology with global sales of some $12bn (£7.9bn). half its manufacturing plants are in japan, and inevitably the business took a hammering when demand imploded as the global recession began to bite. its response says a lot about japanese capitalism. senior vice-president norihiko saitou tells us it embarked on cost-cutting which included 30% pay cuts for board members, the axing of bonuses for managers and the end of overtime. but redundancies were out of the question. "it is a very important company policy not to lay off people," he tells us, through an interpreter. it has a 30-year plan for carbon fibres, a lightweight material that is replacing steel in aeroplanes and cars, and so substantially reduces weight and energy use. boeing has signed it up to supply materials for its dreamliner.it's this approach which may explain why toray is a world leader and courtaulds a shadow of its former self. and toray's share price is around ¥505, up 43% from ¥353 last march. taylor reckons scores of japanese companies such as toray are ideally placed to benefit from not just the recovery in world trade but the coming boom. global gdp was $55tn in 2007. he believes it will be $80tn by 2015, but most of that growth will be in non-oecd countries. "the chinese haven't even begun to gear up," he says. japan is the biggest investor in china, directly and through companies the japanese control in taiwan. taylor's strategy is to buy japanese multinationals, avoid stocks exposed to the moribund domestic economy and hedge the currency. he is a big fan of hedging and warns of the value traps that so often ensnare investors in japan. his analysis of global debt took him out of banks and real estate in 2007. he's back in financials and multinationals now but is fully hedged in the belief that the yen will fall. he finds the domestic economic situation in japan almost comically bad, with a paralysed and corrupted political class unable to cope with the daunting challenges of a rapidly ageing population and colossal fiscal deficit. shigeki morinobu, president of the japan tax institute, shows us a graph that makes alistair darling's budget challenge look like child's play. government spending this year will be around ¥100tn, tax receipts around ¥37tn. japan is hooked on government spending so far in excess of what it raises in taxes that it just can't find a way out. much of that money goes on pensions and healthcare for the elderly, where the bill just keeps rising. government debt has topped 200% of gdp, and financing it from famously thrifty japanese households can't go on much longer. the savings ratio has plummeted from 20% of national income two decades ago to 2% today. crunch time for japan could come in the 2011 budget. government spending, which has propped up the economy since the bubble burst in the early 1990s, must fall. taxes may have to rise. either way, it makes the prospect for the domestic economy grim. but it will force a substantial devaluation of the yen, which will help taylor's holdings in those japanese multinationals. jo hambro's scott mcglashan, who has one of the longest records of investing in japan, believes 2010 will be a strong year for the tokyo stock market. "on most metrics, japanese equities are near historically cheap levels," he says. "strong research and development bodes well for japanese trade and innovation over the long term." but investment consultant allenbridge warns that japan has been the most disappointing major stock market in the world over the past 20 years, with the nikkei 225 at barely a quarter of its 1989 peak. "there have been false dawns galore, with 'stale' bulls pinning their hopes on the old saw of what goes down must eventually go up. there have been short-term blips but it has been a depressing long-term experience." however it now believes tokyo "may finally offer good opportunities, provided investors pick carefully".
lloyds predicts return to profit lloyds banking group cheered its long-suffering shareholders this morning by predicting a return to profit this year, after incurring fewer bad debts than feared in recent weeks. the bank, which is 41% owned by the taxpayer following its takeover of hbos two years ago, told the city that trading had been "strong" in the first 10 weeks of the year. it is keeping a tight lid on costs, which are lower than in the same period in 2009. the bank's net interest margin is still in line with recent guidance and this has supported "a good level of income growth". "impairment provisions are currently trending at lower levels than anticipated and as a result the group now expects to deliver a better impairment performance than previously guided, in both the retail and corporate businesses, in 2010," lloyds said in an unscheduled trading statement. "overall … the group believes that it will be profitable on a combined businesses basis in 2010." the upbeat statement boosted shares in britain's banks, and sent lloyds shares up 8% to 60p in early trading. royal bank of scotland gained nearly 6% to 44.45p, and barclays rose almost 2% to 359.6p. "we did this impromptu update because there is a material improvement in the performance," said a lloyds spokesman. "we felt in the ten weeks of trading since christmas the trends are better than we expected. these are the first signs of an encouraging performance in the year ahead." but he added that the improvement is "not really a reflection of general market conditions" but specific to lloyds' customers. today's comments will calm fears about uk banks after standard & poor's warned yesterday that lenders remain vulnerable to a deterioration in loan quality and money markets. the rating agency said there is "limited scope" for banks to increase profits over the next two years. "into 2010, we consider that uk banks will remain pressured by elevated loan impairments. our expectation of a slow economic recovery may prolong the period in which losses are elevated relative to historic averages," s&p said in a report. analysts at redburn partners noted that the commercial property market ended 2009 on a high with an 8% rise in capital values in the fourth quarter, underpinned by the highest level of investment activity since autumn 2007. "this has materially positive ramifications for lloyds' most troubled loan book." lloyds will update on trading again on 27 april. today's comments are part of a presentation which daniels will give to investors at the morgan stanley european financials conference on wednesday. "in general banks have been very bullish in client meetings post their results. given that interest rates are at a 350-year low, it is not surprising that credit quality is improving," said bruce packard at seymour pierce. "but uk households are around three times more indebted than during the early 1990s recession, and consensus forecasts for growth look far too optimistic compared to how the banks grew income coming out of the last recession."
bartle bogle hegarty takes attack alarm spin-off to stock market bartle bogle hegarty has taken to heart the advice about diversifying beyond advertising agencies' traditional creative work, with the stock market floatation of a subsidiary company that produces fashionable assault alarms for women. bbh, which in many ways is the archetypal traditional ad agency with a reputation built on tv commercials for brands such as levi's, audi and british airways, has nevertheless been trying to develop new revenue streams for the past four years by inventing and developing new brands through a division called zag. zag's goal has been to concentrate on what bbh has termed "brandlag" – areas of the market where consumer activity is ahead of the products so far launched. now one of the businesses developed by zag, ila security, has been floated on the alternative investment market (aim). ila, which produces a personal alarm that looks like a mobile phone and produces a piercing scream at 120 decibels to help protect women from assault, has already been selling in stores such as marks & spencer and next. the business, which currently only produces the ila dusk alarm for women "who want security without compromising on style", floated on aim on friday with a market value of more than £4.5m following a reverse takeover of baylon holdings. "the ila listing represents a significant validation of our business model," said neil munn, the former unilever global brand director who joined bbh to set up the zag venture in early 2006. ila is now aiming to launch five more products – ila sport, ila hook, ila wedge, ila pebble and ila leash – in the coming months. last year bbh produced a major campaign for the ila dusk.
debt-ridden theme park operator merlin says sales are up 6.4% the luxembourg-registered group behind legoland, the london dungeon, madame tussauds, the london eye and alton towers is among a handful of large private equity-owned groups backed by the us buyout house blackstone whose flotation plans are being watched. a london listing for the private equity group travel booking business travelport was postponed last month. exit plans have yet to emerge for blackstone's investments in united biscuits and tragus, the restaurant group behind cafe rouge and strada. blackstone has in recent weeks been among the buyout firms to have attracted criticism over the level of fees sought from prospective investors. some $140m (£93m) had been sought in connection with aborted attempts to list travelport to help cover transaction advisory costs. merlin, which has external net borrowings of about £1bn, published selective figures for the year to 26 december today , which it said showed "the resilience of our business model". it is not expected to publish its statutory accounts for some months. nick varney, chief executive, said: "we are delighted with merlin's performance in 2009. in the midst of a deep global recession we welcomed over three million more visitors to our attractions." asked about plans for a stock market flotation, varney said: "news of the demise of our plans to ipo [initial public offering] are somewhat premature." with no major debts maturing before 2012, he claimed merlin was "under no immediate pressure" to find an exit route for its private-equity backers. it emerged last month that one of blackstone's fellow investors in merlin, dubai international capital, had quietly sold two-thirds of its 18% equity holding in the business to the founding lego family, led by kjeld kirk kirstiansen, as long ago as last summer. the transaction saw the family increase its interest to 34%, making it the second-largest investor behind blackstone, which has 50%. merlin does not own the lego toy brand, which remains under family control. merlin said it raised comparable revenue to £720m, up 6.4% on an underlying basis. it also generated cash of £234m from operations. of that, £101m went on capital investment, a similar sum on interest and a some on paying off a revolving debt facility.
aa and saga float falls by the wayside acromas holdings, the merged aa and saga group, has become the latest ­private equity-owned business to abandon plans to float on the stock market this year, reflecting a new militancy among institutions refusing to back businesses with huge debts. the decision comes amid growing concerns about the future of swaths of british companies that are shouldering debts raised by the private equity ­industry during the boom years, and warnings that tens of thousands of jobs could be at risk. acromas has £6bn of borrowings and was widely tipped as a prime candidate for listing, but senior managers have now taken the unusual step for a private equity-financed vehicle of ruling out a float for at least 12 months. despite acromas's steep borrowings, its executives argue that potential investors will look beyond the numbers when it eventually seeks a public listing. "i think investors will focus on the strength of the management, the strength of the brand and the strength of the underlying business," said ­stuart howard, acromas's chief financial officer. "but i accept that the discussion on the appropriate level of debt for the business will be important." the owners of acromas – cvc capital partners, permira and charterhouse – are among the three biggest names in private equity. they will have to convince potential investors that raising cash on the stock market is more about funding future growth than paying down huge debt. it is a challenge emblematic of issues facing the wider leveraged buyout community, which has racked up a $3tn (£1.9tn) leveraged buyout, property and securitisation debt pile. that mountain of bank borrowing is seen by many experts on distressed debt as an economic and corporate car crash waiting to happen. the vast majority of the $3tn debt needs refinancing in a five-year time­frame starting in 2012. experts believe up to 60% of loans will fail. this implies a huge number of private equity-owned firms – estimated to be almost a fifth of corporate britain – will fold, having a potentially devastating impact on jobs. failure to refinance loans will see private equity firms hit with swingeing financial penalties. the need to repay debt ahead of that deadline is why private equity wants to find exits. the longer it holds investments, the more of its debt it has to repay. and the more likely it is that subsequent private equity fundraising will also fail. "the private equity model is based on the idea that the period of ownership is reasonably limited," a senior investment manager said. "if the period holding [a company] is longer, it makes it harder to attract new money. for investors, they rely on returns to finance the next round. "and i don't think debt markets will come back to the level they were in 2006," the manager said. therefore, there will be refinancing issues. it's a big problem looming." already, investors in private equity are taking fright. in a report out last week from the financial research group preqin, 25% of investment managers said they were unsure when they would next invest in a private equity funding round. a further 8% were not planning to invest for at least a year. this represents a sea change in sentiment. in 1999, institutional investment totalled $329bn, rising to $929bn in 2009. most of this cash came from ­pension funds. those same pension funds have been called on to back public listings but since debenhams, the high-street retailer, raised £950m in 2006, its shares have fallen 66%. of the world's 20 biggest initial public offerings (ipos) involving private equity in 2006 and 2007 – the peak of the last ipo cycle – only six trade above their offer prices, according to thomson reuters data. "the definition of solvency is based on a company's ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due and that is exactly what we do," howard said. the company's auditors certainly have no reason to disagree with this, and a ­simple analysis of the cash available to acromas also confirms howard's assertion. at the year end, it had £140m of available cash, an increase of £30m. this is all underpinned by a trading ­performance that is seemingly coping well with difficult economic circumstances. "the business is performing in line with plans, and cash generation is ahead of expectations because of falling interest rates," howard said. "we have no need to tap the markets." but despite such confidence, there is still a sense that acromas is running up the down escalator. not only does it have to deal with an unhelpful trading environment but it must do so under the strains imposed by carrying more than £6bn of debt. available cash may have increased by £30m but net debt rose £269m. acromas records an annual interest charge of more than £700m. the cash cost is somewhat less than that because £266m of interest costs are simply added to loan instruments held by investors. these subordinated preference certificates attract interest at an effective rate of 16.5%. they may not be repayable until 2037 but they represent an ever increasing debt burden. the acromas management also takes comfort from the fact that its debt was provided under a "covenant-light" regime. a powerful and successful industry used its pre-credit crunch credentials to persuade banks to be less stringent in the conditions they imposed on companies to safeguard their lending. a more restrictive covenant regime may have been less sympathetic to the acromas balance sheet, which boasts only £227m of tangible fixed assets and £426m of net current assets to support £6bn of debt. the last thing acromas needs is ­deteriorating relations with its workforce. and yet, the aa section of the group is threatened with industrial action for the first time in its history. restrictions to its defined contributions pension scheme could spark strikes among a workforce that has already seen the loss of 4,000 jobs since falling under private equity ownership four years ago. while acromas may have its debt financed under covenant-light terms, it must hope that nothing untoward affects the day-to-day business as it tries to repay banks and inch towards an exit. alliance boots boasts of its "commitment to be at the forefront of best practice corporate governance reporting". it cites publication of its financial statement as an example of its transparency. but trying to unravel what is really going on behind the figures set out in the high-street chemist chain's latest accounts for the year ended march 2009 is far from easy. since the company is so heavily geared, it is important to be able to gauge the true extent of its financial liabilities. but here the accounts become less transparent. the carrying value of borrowings on the balance sheet is £9.6bn. but the accounts also provide a figure for the contractual maturity of its financial liabilities, which includes the interest costs relating to those borrowings. on that basis, the borrowings rise to £13.5bn. alliance boots has total financial liabilities on the balance sheet of £12.2bn, which rise to £16.2bn on a contractual maturity basis. to confuse matters further, it is clear from the accounts that none of these figures bears any relationship to what is going on in the real world of the debt markets. a note to the accounts on exceptional items reveals that the market price of the company's debt had been savaged by the turmoil of the credit crunch. alliance boots bought back some its own debt, principally mezzanine finance, with a nominal value of £191m. but the price it paid in the market yielded a discount of £106m – the ultimate buy one get one free. despite its huge debt mountain, alliance boots still boasts net assets in excess of £4bn. however, more than £10bn, well over half its total assets, are represented by intangibles such as goodwill and brands.  when the private equity deal was struck in 2007, the company envisaged using its tangible assets to refinance the balance sheet. a sale and leaseback of property and securitisation of receivables were seen as ways to help cut debt. but neither deal made financial sense against a backdrop of market turmoil and falling interest rates. lower interest rates work to the company's advantage but it still had to shoulder finance costs in excess of £1bn in the year to march. once these have been met there is not much by way of surplus. the company made pre-tax profits of just £13m. of the £30m of free cash generated, about £17m was whittled away by currency translations. andy hornby, group chief executive, delivered an upbeat message last month when reporting on the third-quarter performance. but he recognised that 2010 would be another tough year. alliance boots may not have to start making its biggest debt repayments until 2014 but  a difficult trading environment combined with unforgiving financial markets can only accelerate the point at which it begins to contemplate more aggressively that imposing milestone  – or is it millstone?
superdry owner supergroup plans stock-market flotation it is understood that supergroup will launch institutional and retail share offers, raising about £125m to fund expansion plans and allowing management to take some cash off the table. the three would have had valuations of between £1.2bn and £2bn, and blamed the volatile market for forcing them to call off their plans. however, all three are private equity backed, and some fund managers are known to have balked at their high valuations and levels of debt. had they joined the market successfully, there was a long queue of other private equity-backed companies hoping to follow suit. one industry expert said that the prospect of an ipo was a "last get-out-of-jail card" for many private equity-owned businesses, which could now face difficult refinancing problems and the prospect of being taken over by their lenders in debt-for-equity swaps. new look had hoped to raise £650m to pay down some of its £1bn debt pile, which includes a hugely expensive "payment in kind" loan agreement, taken out to pay a dividend to the retailer's backers. the fashion chain is controlled by the private-equity groups permira and apax partners, with its founder, tom singh, and the management also owning sizeable stakes. another firm, promethean, which is behind the whiteboards used in schools across the world, is also expected to confirm plans for an ipo today. although it is private equity backed, it has not been saddled with huge debts. supergroup, however, is debt free. the brand, launched only six years ago, is the brainchild of julian dunkerton, whose chain of cult boutiques is also part of supergroup, and james holder, who previously developed the bench label. dunkerton, who started his business in 1985 with a market stall and a £40-a-week grant under margaret thatcher's enterprise allowance scheme, owns 52% of the business, while holder and sales director theo karpathios account for 20%. supergroup could be valued at up to £400m and a successful float would turn all three into multimillionaires. cheltenham-based superdry, and its trademark orange label, have reached near-cult status among teenagers and twentysomethings. it sells a range of street-style clothing and has celebrity fans such as david beckham and the actor leonardo dicaprio, even though it does not pay famous faces to endorse its clothes. last month it unveiled a 29% increase in like-for-like sales in the five weeks to christmas, on top of a 27% rise the previous year. total sales over the past year almost doubled to £119m. the group, which employs 1,000 staff, opened 17 new stores last year, taking its total to 40. it also has 54 concessions in house of fraser, where it is one of the best-selling labels. the superdry brand is sold in 30 countries and the group also has wholesale and online operations. it is understood that keith edelman, a veteran retailer whose most recent job was as chief executive of arsenal football club and who is a former wal-mart executive, have also been lined up. the ­company declined to comment on its ­flotation plans.
promethean forges ahead with flotation the company behind the educational whiteboards used in schools across the world is understood to be planning to join the stock market, despite the decision by three far bigger companies to pull the plug on their own plans. promethean, based in blackburn, makes a range of hi-tech educational kit, including whiteboards and handheld classroom devices for children, and is expected to confirm next week – possibly as early as monday – that it is pressing the button on an initial public offer likely to value the business at up to £500m. although promethean is backed by apax, which invested in 2004, unlike other companies with private equity investors who have abandoned their ipos in the last three days – new look, travelport and merlin entertainment – promethean has not been saddled with massive debts. apax is expected to sell its entire stake, which will be worth £100m-£125m. promethean has carved itself a profitable niche in the educational technology sector and is second in the whiteboard market behind canada's smart technologies. it leads the embryonic market for handheld classroom devices for pupils. the company also has an online community of more than half a million teachers worldwide who use its portal – promethean planet – to swap lesson plans and teaching tips. they can also download paid-for lesson plans. the company was founded just over a decade ago by tony cann, now vice-chairman, who owns just over 50% of the business. howe and chief executive jean-yves charlier, former boss of colt telecom, hold about 10% between them. non-executives include film producer lord puttnam and philip rowley, former boss of aol europe.
new look pulls planned stock market flotation young fashion chain new look's ambition to rejoin the stock market was dashed today as the private equity-owned retailer was forced to scrap its flotation plans. new look blamed the "unfavourable market backdrop" and said it had been a "difficult decision". the sale prospectus had been due for publication on monday, when bookbuilding – signing up investors – was due to begin. however, some fund managers had balked at being asked to put up cash to repay private equity debts. the float, announced only 10 days ago, was called off after a crisis board meeting this morning. it capped two days which have destroyed the hopes of the private equity sector for a series of big, successful stockmarket listings for their investments. if successful, the three big floats would have heralded a flood of other private equity-backed companies joining the market as a way for financiers to crystallise their profits. their failure, said one private equity expert, represented pe's "last 'get out of jail' card" before some of the companies they bought face financial crisis. the collapse of the ipos is also bad news for investment bankers, who had hoped the share offerings would have produced huge advisory fees. new look was acquired by permira and apax partners in 2004. founder tom singh has a stake, as has the store's senior management team. chief executive carl mcphail said: "we have taken the difficult decision to postpone the initial public offering as a result of the considerable volatility in the equity markets." he said the group still wanted to return to the stock market: "we remain convinced of the strengths of the new look business and its suitability as a public company. new look remains a great business with a great future. we will re-evaluate our options when market conditions improve." today, however, a new look spokesman said the retailer would not be constrained by its inability to float: "they didn't have to do it at all. they have high levels of cash." the majority of the float proceeds had been earmarked to pay off an expensive £360m payment-in-kind loan, where interest rolls up and is repaid in a large sum at the end of the term. the pik note was taken on to pay a dividend to new look's backers and management. the backers and management had not revealed how many shares they were likely to cash in at flotation, but the listing would have turned the retailer's bosses into multi-millionaires. the decision to abandon the planned float is the second time the retailer's backers have failed to sell the business. a plan was dropped in 2007 when bids fell short of the company's target. many now face the prospect of refinancing in a fragile market where banks are being very demanding. some private equity experts believe many pe-backed businesses could now fall under the control of their lenders. guy fraser sampson, a private equity expert at the cass business school, said the door slamming on ipos was "very bad news for the private equity industry", which for some "was the last 'get out of jail' card for them to keep up returns". he said some pe-backed companies would be seized by their banks while investors who put cash into private equity funds "must get used to much lower returns". new look may also have been hampered by suggestions that the prospects for retailers did not look good, as the impact of the recent vat rise takes effect and tax rises loom. retail shares have dropped more than 10% so far this year – double the decline in the ftse-100. however, new look had boasted about its market-beating sales growth and don williams, head of retail at accountants bdo, said it was the value being put on new look that had caused it to fail, rather than the economic backdrop. "conditions have definitely improved for retailers compared to this time last year and fashion, in particular, has seen like-for-like growth. the postponement of new look's ipo should not be seen as an indication of trouble on the high street. it is still a buyer's market at a corporate level and as such, prices must be realistic," he said.
new look pulls planned stock market flotation new look has become the latest company to pull its planned stock market flotation, blaming turbulent markets. it is the second time in three years that the budget retailer, backed by private equity firms permira and apax, has abandoned plans for a float. it was hoping to raise £650m to cut its £1bn debt pile, but did not meet with much enthusiasm from fund managers. carl mcphail, new look's chief executive, said in a statement to the london stock exchange: "we have taken the difficult decision to postpone the initial public offering as a result of the considerable volatility in the equity markets. we remain convinced of the strengths of the new look business and its suitability as a public company. we will re-evaluate our options when market conditions improve." while markets have expected a flurry of big stock market flotations this year, a number of companies have abruptly changed their minds in recent days.
markets volatile after mixed us jobs figures the keenly awaited us jobs report has provoked a volatile reaction from the stock market, as investors tried to read the runes of the figures. in the event, us employers cut 20,000 jobs in january rather than the increase expected by the market. in truth, the range was so wide that the consensus was for a 27,000 rise but it veered from positive to negative. if the raw number was – overall – disappointing then the unemployment rate edged down from 10% to a five-month low of 9.7%, when everyone was expecting a slight increase to 10.1%. apart from suggesting that once more the experts were not exactly on the ball, the figures sent the market scrambling for direction. the initial reaction from the ftse was to show a 100-point fall, but this soon pulled back to a decline of just over 50 points. at the moment the index is down 59.50 at 5079.81. the us futures have recovered from suggesting a 70-point fall at the open to a 7-point decline. once thing is certain, however, and that is the market's uncertainty.
markets fall on widening deficit fears and rising us unemployment doubts over greece's ability to pay its debts extended to spain, portugal and eastern european countries, all labouring under high budget deficits. the cost of insuring $10m of spain's sovereign debt rocketed to $162,000 (£103,000), twice as much as britain and about four times the cost to insure germany's bonds, according to markit, the credit data provider. portugal only raised €300m of the €500m it was expecting in a bond sale, further fuelling the uncertainty. in line with other leading european indexes, the ftse 100 shed 2.2%, or 114 points, to close at 5,139.31, its lowest close in three months, with banks leading the way and shares in miners and oil companies under pressure from lower oil and commodity prices. in new york, the dow jones slipped below the 10,000 mark at one stage before closing 268 points lower at 10,002, a fall of 2.61%, after figures unexpectedly showed a rise in new claims for jobless benefits, raising fears that tomorrow's key non-farm payrolls data could be worse than expected. the dow jones has now fallen by more than 6.5% during the last two weeks. the us data also hit commodity and currency markets, amid investors' concerns about a double-dip recession. "there is a renewed bout of risk aversion, there were expectations that the [us jobs] number would trend lower," said tim rees, a fund manager at insight investment. "although some company results were pretty good, the market is finding reasons to be bearish." spain's economy minister, elena salgado, this week announced €50bn of budget cuts aimed at reducing the budget deficit to 3% of gdp – the european target – from a revised 11.4% at present. spaniards are under pressure from the international financial community, as it will force the government to pay more for its debt.
new look to raise £650m in stock market flotation the fashion chain said it would use the cash being raised to cut its debt to £450m. with a much lower interest bill, said chief executive carl mcphail, the retailer would be able to plough more cash into expansion plans. the company, majority-owned by private equity groups apax and permira, is likely to be valued at £1.7bn. it was taken private in 2004 in a £700m deal and the retailer says £450m has been invested in the business since. new look is among a number of companies queuing up to join the stock market after last year's share rally and its progress will be watched closely. aside from the difficult economic backdrop the retailer could also be hampered by the "debenhams factor" – a reference to the department store's return to the market in 2006 after a spell in private equity ownership had left it burdened with debt and with stores in need of refurbishment. a series of profits warnings followed and the shares dived. one fund manager told reuters news agency yesterday he had "no interest whatsoever" in new look's ipo. he said it was "a fantastic company, but coming in at totally the wrong price for the debt structure". new look also intends to open more stores in europe, where it currently has 58 outlets, and more franchised outlets in locations like the middle east and russia, where there are currently 44 stores. mcphail said discount fashion was growing nearly four times as fast as the overall clothing market and new look is growing far faster than its rival cheap chic retailers. only 3% of sales come via the internet, said the new look boss, and there was more opportunity online and in men's clothing and childrenswear, which could only be realised with more store space. the float will turn new look's senior management into multimillionaires, on paper at least, as it is not yet known how many shares they might cash in. the senior executives own 16% of the group, shares which are likely to be worth nearly £300m. new look's founder tom singh, who was part of the group which took the business private in 2004, owns a 22.5% stake, expected to be valued at some £400m.
ocado flotation fears grow as oil firm's listing heads for collapse fairfield energy, a private-equity backed north sea oil business which was hoping to raise £330m, has been spurned by investors. a board meeting was taking place tonight and, barring a last-minute rush for the shares, the float is expected to be formally abandoned tomorrow morning. the company, which specialises in extracting hard-to-access oil from mature fields, is expected to blame the current jittery state of global markets and anxiety among potential investors for its decision to pull the float. ocado, which is aiming for a valuation of more than £1bn, is attempting to raise £400m from many of the same investors. ocado shares are being offered in the price range of 200-275p and private investors must get their applications in by midnight on sunday. institutional investors have until next tuesday, but privately, many have made it clear they have no intention of buying shares, insisting the business is worth nowhere near £1bn. ocado's senior management are currently on a marketing roadshow in the us to persuade american investors to buy shares and its directors are in a blackout period, unable to comment on how the sale process is going. but a source close to the company insisted fairfield's failure was irrelevant: "it's an oil well in the north sea. it is a depleting asset and a finite resource." he said the grocer's directors were "really bored" with what they believed was negative media coverage and that they remained "pretty confident" they would get their float away. several high-profile city retail analysts have questioned the valuation of the ocado business. earlier this week, clive black, of shore capital, described the price tag as "stratospheric". he added: "it is little short of ludicrous to suggest otherwise" and is urging investors not to buy the shares – and to consider shorting them to make money if the price declines. greg lawless, of collins stewart, believes the shares could be worth just 128p each, while nick bubb, of arden partners, has suggested the ocado bosses consider "a face-saving cut in the price to 160-180p". a source close to the grocery company said the analysts do not "get it" because they are used to assessing the prospects of traditional high street retailers rather than new online business models such as ocado. he added that overseas investors had given the company "an amazing reception".
european bank shares rise on economic recovery optimism, low uk rates renewed optimism about global economic recovery lifted bank shares throughout europe, pushing stock market indexes into gains. the ft-se 100 added 90 points, or 1.8%, to 5,105 points, also helped by the bank of england's decision to keep interest rates at 0.5%. hopes that cheap money will fuel demand for bank loans and consumption sent lloyds bank up 4.3%, or 2.5 pence, to 60.99p. royal bank of scotland gained 1.5p, or 3.5%, 44.3p, while barclays added 10.4p, or 3.5%, to 301.5p. "the uk economy is still extremely fragile, and with a severe fiscal tightening on the way it is essential for monetary policy to support the recovery," said graeme leach, chief economist at the institute of directors. the market also cheered news showing that britain's manufacturing output grew at the fastest rate in nearly 16 years in may, following heavy downward revisions to april's numbers. european bank shares rose, boosted by the emergence of the first details of the eu stress tests -perceived to be less tough than expected. as many as 91 european banks will be tested on their ability to resist a financial shock, and may be asked to increase their capital buffers if appropriate. confidence in that the tests will reassure investors over the spanish banking system sent the price to protect $10bn of spanish debt down by $15,000, to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about spain following greece into a bail-out. in madrid, banco santander rose 1.4% to €9.9. man group, the world's largest quoted hedge fund, said assets under management fell by 2.3% during its fiscal first quarter to $38.5bn. the shares, which have plunged by one third over the past six months, rose by 0.6%, or 1.3p, to 222.5p, as institutional investors, such as pension funds, withdrew less funds than expected. redemptions reached $0.6bn, "the lowest absolute quarterly level for three years," the company said. insolvency specialist begbies traynor group rose 1.2% to 60p after posting buoyant annual results, boosted by its growing number of distressed clients. the firm, which provides administration and restructuring services, said full-year pre-tax profit from continuing operations, surged by 20% to £8.7m. the economic recession and a drought of traditional bank lending have pushed hundreds of businesses into insolvency as they struggled to meet interest payments.
stock market analysts square up: will the bears or bulls triumph? "the government has bought easy answers with more and more credit but that's over now – there is too much debt and they cannot borrow anymore. we're dealing with much deeper change than most people realise." gilts are bonds issued and backed by the government, offering almost zero risk (unless the government goes bust, something more cynical readers may believe to be imminent). when you invest in gilts you are effectively lending money to the government, which promises to pay you back the full amount (the principal) at a set date, along with interest (the coupon). all gilts are issued at 100p but can be traded, so you can sell or buy them before their redemption date for a potential gain or loss. gilt yields rise and fall in line with the bank of england base rate, but if you buy and hold you know exactly where you stand for both income and capital. "the fact is, while you can worry about growth in china – it is so full of holes it's like an aero bar – the eurozone or the us, the long-term picture will tell you that a balanced portfolio across all asset classes (equities, bonds, gilts, property, commodities) should see investors alright, even if it is a bit dull; not equities alone, not gilts alone, but everything together. his colleague ted scott, manager of the f&c uk growth & income fund, says that a shift in assets (from equities to bonds) is "entirely rational as expectations on the shape of the recovery were too bullish. in the uk, the nature of the budget has reinforced this as it is largely positive for bonds and negative for equities." lees agrees that it is the right time to reduce risk in equity portfolios, especially as most financial and cyclical companies are on "quite demanding valuations". but in a recent statement he did support the likes of imperial tobacco, glaxo and capita in the large-cap arena, along with "old favourites" such as domino's pizza and connaught lower down the market. lees says they are good examples of companies with resilient earnings growth, strong balance sheets and, in many cases, attractive and growing dividends. more importantly, they lagged the market as it briefly rallied earlier this year. dermott whelan of independent financial adviser informed choices agrees there is a lot of uncertainty across asset classes and says their recommended portfolio would actually be underweight in gilts. "we have concerns that demand for gilts will be scarcer this year than it has been over the previous 12 months," he says. "it was the system of quantitative easing that previously bought up much of the gilt issuance and we cannot rely on that to happen again this year, particularly with continued fears about inflation." that said, he suggests portfolios should be overweight in index-linked gilts while uncertainty remains about the future of uk inflation. as for equities, whelan suggests being overweight in european shares. "we believe that the euro will survive the current crisis, although it may remain weak for some time yet. this would be positive for european exporters, so overseas earnings should help to fund economic growth in europe, particularly if demand is there from the growth in emerging market economies." he remains neutral on uk and american equities but likes the look of asian (excluding japan) equities because "these economies are generating growth well in excess of developed western economies."
ftse slides after moody's threatens to downgrade spain shares in london fell to their lowest level in nearly 10 months this morning amid fears that spain was about to be pulled deeper into the european debt crisis. last night, rating agency moody's alarmed the financial markets by announcing that it has put spain's aaa sovereign rating on review for "possible downgrade". it said that the country's economic prospects are deteriorating, at a time when its government is attempting to cut its deficit. moody's will now evaluate spain's credit rating again, over the next three months. it said it expects that any cut would only be by "one, or at most two, notches". the ebc is calling in €442bn of loans made a year ago at the height of the financial crisis, so the markets are keen to learn whether institutions now have to lean heavily on its six-day lending facility. yesterday they borrowed a total of €131.9bn in 3 months funding, less than feared. according to gary jenkins of evolution securities, this may be a sign that the banks have lost their appetite for buying government bonds, which they had financed with cheap money from the ecb: a year ago the opportunity to borrow significant sums of money from the ecb at 1% was probably seen by many institutions as an opportunity to put a "risk free" trade on where they used the ecb cash to purchase longer dated government bonds and then took the turn. a nice little earner on the face of it. however as we know that has not turned out to be the case and in reality the banks have probably been preparing for the expiry of the €442bn facility by selling some of the assets that they purchased with it in the first place.
hut group prepares to float on back of vat loophole the hut group, the fast-growing firm behind controversial vat-free cd and dvd internet sales for asda, whsmith, dixons, argos and woolworths, has begun rapidly expanding into other product areas – including cheap handbags, jewellery, novelty gifts, sun cream and underwear – as it builds towards a stock market flotation early next year. new websites gifted.com, mybag.co.uk and washbag.com have been launched in the past three months. the move is a bold departure for the cheshire-based business, which has grown into britain's third-largest online dvd and cd retailer in the six years since it was set up by matthew moulding and john gallemore, former executives within john caudwell's mobile phone empire. by basing much of certain operations in the channel islands, the hut group exploits a loophole in 27-year-old european tax rules that exempts from vat any imports below £18 in value arriving from outside the eu. with vat scheduled to rise from 17.5% to 20% at the end of the year, the appeal of tax-free internet sales is expected to become stronger than ever. the treasury has been said to be keeping channel islands vat-free trade under "close review" and the new government has yet to look at the matter. data from kantar market research suggests one in three music cd purchases in the run-up to last christmas were at vat-free prices via the internet. among those offering the customers the internet tax dodge are tesco, hmv amazon and play.com.
ocado hopes for £1bn valuation on float the loss-making business, which was set up in 2000 and made its first delivery in 2002, also announced improved financial results today. its finance director, andrew bracey, said that revenue was up 29% in the most recent six months and earnings before financial charges were ahead 181% at £8m. ocado has never made a bottom-line profit. it took more than 100,000 orders in a single week for the first time during may, with 6% of orders now coming through the ocado iphone app. the company, which has just over £100m of debt, expects to have a £1bn enterprise value at the float. after the share offer, its equity should be valued at £1.1bn. that valuation would be more than double last year's gross sales of £427m. the bulk of ocado's customers are inside the m25, although it delivers to towns as far north as harrogate. it intends to use the bulk of the proceeds of the float to finance a new warehouse and is looking at sites in the midlands. about £45m will be used to pay down debt. the company said that it had "a significant market opportunity" because the grocery sector is the biggest in retail but has the lowest level of online shopping. it added that it had identified growth opportunities for selling non-food ranges "such as baby [products], health and beauty and kitchenware" and also saw opportunities to replicate the business overseas. bracey said: "we believe now is an ideal time in ocado's development for it to fund the growth and expansion of the business by raising capital in a flotation." he has signed up eight banks to advise on the flotation. two of them, said bracey, "have good research and write well", while others have been brought in "to say thank you for stuff they have done in the past". the float advisers will share fees of about £15m. ocado's planned float is far from a guaranteed success. supergroup – which owns the superdry fashion label and retail chain – floated in march at 500p and today the shares closed up 23p at 733p. however, the rival fashion group new look was forced to abandon its plans for a float amid gyrating markets and after investors rejected the idea of supplying cash that was to be used largely to repay debt. philip dorgan, retail analyst at ambrian, has described ocado as "snake oil" and said: "ocado starts with an 'o', ends with an 'o' and is worth zero." clive black at shore capital said he "balked" at the £1bn valuation, which had "no bearing whatsoever to a sensible earnings multiple ... given ongoing losses [and] micro profits".
battersea power station fires up for london stock market listing despite numerous plans for the 40-acre site, it has stood empty for more than a quarter of a century while the rest of the thames waterfront around it has undergone huge change. reo has been hit hard by the irish property slump. it reported an underlying loss before tax of nearly £1bn for the 14 months to 28 february, reflecting an £811m drop in the valuation of its property portfolio. the firm has drawn up a shortlist of possible investors after being approached by a number of international real estate groups, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds from around the world, including the middle east. reo hopes to get permission to redevelop the site in september after submitting the largest ever planning application made in central london, in terms of financial value, last autumn. if it gets the go-ahead, the site's value is expected to soar from the current valuation of £388m. treasury holdings was forced to tear up its plans for the imposing building, one of london's most recognisable landmarks, and start again after johnson decided that a proposed tower would ruin the view from waterloo bridge to the palace of westminster. the original plan, drawn up by the new york-based architect rafael viñoly, included a futuristic 300m glass funnel and atrium, rising from an enormous transparent dome. viñoly and treasury holdings came up with a new blueprint a year ago that is capped at a height of 60m, as stipulated by the mayor. it includes 3,700 homes, office space, shops, restaurants and leisure facilities, at a cost of £4.5bn. treasury holdings also hopes to co-fund an extension of london underground's northern line to the site. the high cost means the company needs a partner – "someone who can bring big financial strength to it to make sure it happens," said tincknell. building work could start at the end of 2011. when the power station was decommissioned in 1983, its then owners, the central electricity generating board, wanted to tear down the building and replace it with housing, but it had been given a grade ii listing in 1980. for developers, the real prize is the land around it; most have little interest in its heritage status.
record drop in new us home sales unnerves investors the stock market decline is accelerating after disappointing us new home sales, which fell to a record low and renewed fears that the economy recovery was slowing. after poor existing home sales yesterday, sales of new single family homes fell 32.7% in may to 300,000, the lowest level since the survey started in 1963. analysts had been expecting a decline of around 14%. following the expiry of the homebuyer tax credit, may new home sales came in one third lower. at first sight, this is awful. but a marked drop in new home sales was to be expected. new home sales capture deal signings. deals had to be signed by 30 april to qualify for the homebuyer tax credit. this has pulled forward demand, and caused a demand fallout in may.
deepwater oil drilling under scrutiny as brazil's petrobas delays flotation brazil's national oil company petrobras has surprised investors by postponing its $25bn (£16.86bn) stock market flotation, potentially delaying its efforts to extract oil from deepwater reserves off the coast. the petrobras stock offering, which had been scheduled for july, will now be delayed by two months until september. it blamed the move on brazil's anp energy regulator, which needs more time to assess the value of oil reserves which lie deep below the seabed off the coast of rio de janeiro. the flotation of petrobras is a key part of the country's efforts to extract huge quantities of high-quality oil which lie around 280 miles offshore. these reserves are trapped around 4,000 metres under the sea floor, beneath layers of salt and rock. there is also around 2,000 metres of seawater between the seabed and the surface, further complicating the drilling process. under petrobras's flotation plan, the government would sell the company the right to extract 5bn barrels of oil in reserves currently under the state's control, and would receive an equal share of the listed company in return. the first of brazil's massive pre-salt oil fields, tupi, was discovered in 2007. it contains between 5bn and 8bn barrels of oil, triggering fevered speculation that the country had suddenly become a major player in the world energy market. other fields have since been discovered, pushing up the total estimates size of the reserves to around 30bn barrels – roughly the entire world oil consumption in 2010. but environmental activists are deeply concerned that extracting the oil will be dangerous, as it is even deeper than bp's macondo field. last week the global renewable fuels alliance (grfa) named brazil's tupi field as one of the 10 most dangerous offshore sites in the world. "drilling through the salt layer will create significant risks," the grfa warned. the brazilian government is committed to exploiting the pre-salt oil fields. president luiz inácio lula da silva wants to use the reserves to cut poverty in the country and improve its education system.
online investing and women "gone are the days when online investing was completely dominated by men," says edward croft, chief executive of stockopedia. "there are increasing numbers of smart, savvy women out there who are taking up the challenge of making their own investment decisions. "they are showing that the traditional route of giving full control of your portfolio to an arms-length investment adviser is not the only choice." many of the women who have turned to share trading have done so very recently. selftrade's figures show that the proportion of investors using its site that are women jumped from 24% to 34% in just two years. the increasing availability of information and share services online has helped fuel this trend. it has also shifted the emphasis away from affluent individuals and city workers. however, as diverse as the investing community may be, many recent investors have taken the plunge because they have been dissatisfied by the performance of their more traditional investments. so, who are the new female investors? samina is a typical mum of three kids, aged eight, four and two. she is run off her feet and juggles the school run, nursery and childcare, and working four days a week as a debt recovery officer. samina has always saved. she was prompted to take the plunge into buying and selling shares after her two endowment policies – with legal & general and friends provident – performed so badly. "i just didn't make anything on them. there was no point in doing them. i'm better off self-investing," she says. her disappointment in the performance of her investments came at the same time as she faced problems in her marriage, exacerbating the need for her to exert greater financial control. "there was a time when i didn't mind someone else investing my money on my behalf, but i've had some issues – marital problems etc – so, financially, i need to be secure now. i'm much more conscious of the need to plan ahead and i've realised i need more control over what i'm doing." samina has been encouraged by her stepfather, zahid, who has bought and sold shares for as long as she can remember, and has provided her with much appreciated guidance. in the past year, samina's confidence in her own investing ability has grown. now, instead of just buying and holding shares, she has taken the plunge and sold shares and changed the weighting of her portfolio as the markets have changed. "at the moment, i'm just invested in uk shares, mainly in power companies and energy providers, but i'm also looking to invest in us markets. "i could trade a lot more than i do, but if i traded more i'd need to do more research, and i don't have the time for that. i'm doing this to plan for my future, as well, not just for the kids." samina's confidence has grown so much, thanks to the encouragement of zahid, that she has now become an advocate of investing and has persuaded one of her friends to take up her hobby. "my friend is the same age – she's 41 – with kids the same age. she's a training manager with the civil service, but i've persuaded her, and she now buys shares. the risks are high but it's the best way to make some money grow if you've got the balls for it." kate (not her real name) began investing in shares after her husband died. "my husband always managed the money. when he died there were all these decisions that i'd never taken that needed sorting. i carried on working and raising the children, and didn't really think about any investments other than to use the isa allowance as it came up each year." the turning point for kate was when she stopped work seven years ago. "i just couldn't do the job and raise the kids on my own." suddenly she had more time on her hands and could do the research required to make sensible investment decisions. "i started off really small. before, it was someone else always doing that investing and shouldering the risk, either in funds or in isas, so when i started it suddenly seemed really risky to actually hit that 'buy' button. but i went in gently and read everything i could." kate has researched her investments thoroughly. she began by reading around her subjects. that gave her the material she needed to home in on her specialism – oil. kate was looking to invest in something she could hedge against and, for her, that was commodity shortages. many oil companies may list on the london stock exchange and be bought in sterling by uk investors, but they are essentially a dollar-denominated asset, which can remove the sterling risk. "once i found my forte, 90% of my active investing has been in oil shares. i'm not talking giants like bp, but small- and medium-sized companies. their business is simpler to understand than, say, a bank or a pharmaceutical company, because they only have one product, so, as an investor, you're looking to find which company has an edge due to diligence." kate has now returned to work – for one of britain's leading charities – and says her investing takes as much time as she wants it to take. "i don't run shorts, derivatives or warrants and i don't do spread betting. i just run straight equity positions so i can switch off if i'm on a fortnight's holiday, for example. "i'm not glued to my pc, but i can do as much, or as little, as i choose." cynthia, who does not want to give her full name, feels she has to do her own investing in order to get any returns, having seen her hard-earned investments reduce in value under the guidance of a broker. having worked at the united nationals industrial development organisation (unido) for 12 years, cynthia took its "golden handshake" payment, worth around €50,000 (£41,500), and moved to the international atomic agency. she left the un altogether in 2003 and moved to britain with her husband. as unido was based in vienna, cynthia entrusted her €50,000 to an austrian broker. seven years later, her investment is now worth just €40,000 (£33,200). "it's really hard to see my money lose so much value, but i feel stuck with it now. if i take that money out, then i've made the loss real. i'd rather keep the €40,000 where it is in austria and hope it can make up its shortfall. i feel like i really have no control over that money. having spent most of her working life outside the uk, cynthia's investing strategy is strictly global. her focus is on brazil, china and emerging markets. "when i was with unido i travelled a lot through asia and brazil, so i know where the opportunities are. for example, brazil will be hosting the olympics in 2016, so i'm looking at small- and medium-sized construction companies that i know will benefit from that work. "i'm also looking in asia. i'm looking long term at construction, engineering and technology. my mum is from the philippines, and i've travelled a lot to asia for work, and this is an area i feel i know. i'm comfortable researching the data and the companies here, and i will have so much more control over my investment choices by buying and selling my own shares than i would if i chose another broker." however, cynthia (above) is not ready to sever all advice ties. she has opted for an advisory online service rather than an "execution-only" one because she feels reassured that she can talk through her decisions. "i can do all my own research and come up with my choices, but then i can double-check, as well, before taking the plunge," she says. it won't all be high-risk, small-cap, emerging market companies. cynthia has also homed in on a couple of blue chip favourites, "to get a bit more security, for the dividends, and to balance the portfolio".
ftse finishes higher for fifth day but inmarsat falls out of favour the fall came as bank of america/merrill lynch cut its recommendation from neutral to underperform with a 725p price target, saying it believed the company may have to spend huge amounts of cash to replace its older satellites. the bank said: we are concerned by a number of operational issues, though our primary concern is that inmarsat could announce a large fleet expansion in order drive top line revenue and fight off competition from the fixed satellite service operators. instead of the long awaited "cashflow harvest" investors had been expecting, shareholders could be hit for up to $1bn to fund new ka-band satellites. we believe management could use the new long-term revenue guidance due at the second quarter on august 6 to unveil the unpleasant capex news. based on data in its ipo prospectus, we believe inmarsat now needs to announce a large fleet renewal as the age of its older generation satellites mean it will need further back-up capacity soon. of inmarsat's 11 satellites, four are beyond their original estimated useful lives, three others are due to end in the next two years and one in 2014. we believe inmarsat is likely to announce a replacement fleet, probably using 3 or 4 new ka-band satellites at a price of at least $250m each. the company meanwhile maintained ka-band is only one option, and although expensive, would produce higher revenues. a decision would be made later this year, it said, adding that its performance so far this year had been solid, and it was likely to hit growth expectations. meanwhile investors are still awaiting news of any possible bid for inmarsat from its major shareholder harbinger capital partners. bp closed 13.45p lower at 342p, as fitch downgraded the company in the wake of the escalating costs of the gulf of mexico disaster and signs that its rivals had distanced themselves from the company at us congressional hearings. we remain equal weight on intercontinental as the outlook is uncertain, although we want to turn more positive as stronger-than-expected recent hotel demand suggests this should be a 'normal' hotel cycle, and we upgrade our 2010 revenue per available room estimate from -2% to +5%. the shares have been ticking lower over recent weeks, reflecting the absence of any positive news flow. that said, we anticipate investors will be severely disappointed in today's news. with the recent trading update indicating a pre-election and volcanic ash driven slowdown we would anticipate investors may discount further trading uncertainty. bulls of the stock will point to the strong growth delivered in recent years. however, we are entering an unprecedented period of austerity and the company has aggressively been squeezing margins higher. we see significant potential pressure on margins over the short to medium term. we therefore re-iterate our sell recommendation and 170p price target.
ig group shares hit all time high after positive update the company said it expected to report a rise in profits from £125.9m to £157m for the year ending may 31, with revenues up 16% to £298m. the final quarter in particular did well, with revenues up 24%. it said: [ig] has benefited from an increase in volatility in both forex and equity markets in the last few weeks of the year. this volatility boosted client activity and hence revenue, and also increased the rate of new account opening. it remains difficult to predict future trends in volatility or customer reaction to changing market and economic conditions. strong account opening and the continued development of the offering leave the group well positioned for further growth. the company's shares have climbed 49.3p to 441.5p - up £12.5% - and analyst robin savage at collins stewart issued a buy note and said: [the profit number] is 3% above the top end of market expectations (£53m to £126m) and 8% above our forecast. revenues of £298m will have surprised most of the market who were expecting between £294m and £257m, despite a very clear third quarter ims in march which showed strong growth. we take this opportunity to increase our 2010 dividend expectation by 11% from 11.7p to 12.9p. the dividend could be even higher: dividend cover of 1.5 times would suggest a total dividend of 20p. this pre-close statement is likely to push ig group shares to above the all time high of 430p. the final results on 20 july should reveal very strong cash flows and dividend paying capability. we reiterate our 500p target price.
phoenix's £200m restructuring deal paves way for full stock market listing britain's largest "zombie" insurance fund manager, which buys up insurance funds that have been closed to new business, wants to move from a secondary listing to a premium listing to raise its profile and boost its share price. it is also keen to go on a buying spree next year, which will further cut the cost of managing the insurance policies. "in due course, we believe that we will be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities in the consolidation of the closed life sector, thereby enhancing value for our shareholders," said chief executive jonathan moss. the company, the brainchild of pizza and pub entrepreneur hugh osmond, has reached a deal to remove contingent share rights that, if approved by investors, will clear the way for the group to obtain a premium listing on 5 july. it expects to be included in the ftse's uk indices from september. phoenix announced today that it had agreed to buy out the contingent rights held by two of its main shareholders, by swapping nine shares for every 10 contingent rights. these entitlements promised shares in the business if the share price hit a certain level. they were issued to private equity investors osmond and manjit dale's buyout firm tdr capital to compensate them for giving up 70% of their stakes in the group as part of a restructuring a year ago, when the firm was in financial trouble and was acquired by an amsterdam-listed vehicle. at today's london share price of 632.5p, up 7p, the new shares are worth about £200m and phoenix is set to have a market value of £1bn following the capital restructuring, up from the current £840m. phoenix hopes the premium listing will bring improved liquidity, wider analyst coverage and ultimately a re-rating of the share price, which it believes is undervalued the group has 6.5 million policyholders and £69bn of assets under management. "if we get this re-rating it will become much easier to think about acquisitions," said a spokesman. analysts at jp morgan cazenove welcomed today's deal. "if passed by shareholders, it will leave a stock with a much simplified capital structure, delivering very strong cash flow." they said the likely impact is "significant share price upside potential, due to a lower share count; and over the medium term, improved liquidity in the shares and, hopefully, a consequent re-rating".
former vivendi boss messier admits making 'mistakes' as he faces fraud trial in an uncharacteristic display of contrition, the man who was dubbed "master of the universe" by the french media for his arrogance and jet-setting lifestyle, told a panel of judges he recognised that his track record as chief executive of the group until 2002 was not perfect. "did we make strategic errors? yes, undoubtedly. i take responsibility for them," said messier, who embarked on a string of acquisitions to transform an ageing french water company into a multibillion-pound group. "certain decisions which i took, which we took collectively, turned out not to have been the best. i certainly made mistakes," he told the court. he denies all the charges, which cover a two-year period from 2000, the year of vivendi's $34bn (£23bn) acquisition of seagram, the canadian entertainment and music company. if found guilty, messier faces up to five years in prison and a fine of €350,000 (£292,400). in the latest chapter of the legal saga surrounding the near-implosion of vivendi, the former lazard banker is standing trial along with six other executives, including edgar bronfman jr, former vice-chairman, who are accused of criminal activity while at vivendi. all deny the charges. unlike a class action suit brought to trial in new york earlier this year, which cleared messier of wrongdoing but found vivendi itself liable of misleading investors, the media and telecommunications firm does not figure among the accused in the french trial. in fact it is one of the plaintiffs, together with a group of french investors whose original complaint in 2002 sparked the criminal inquiry into the period the media now refer to as "les années messier". the paris court will now have to rule on whether, through his alleged involvement in a move to buy back nearly €2bn of vivendi stock after 11 september 2001, messier was manipulating the share price. it will also have to decide whether what messier today described as his "excessive communication" about the robust state of vivendi's financial affairs constituted misleading investors. his much-derided "golden parachute" of 2002 – which included €18.6m severance pay which he subsequently forfeited, and a chauffeur for his wife – is also up for discussion. d'huy has said the destruction messier left in his wake at vivendi – including debts of up to €27bn – was such that the deal was "clearly excessive". today, at the start of the month-long trial, the business chief insisted he had acted in the "interest" of the company and claimed many of the assets bought under his stewardship were now proving some of vivendi's most profitable.he had, he said, learned one thing throughout the inquiries, which, aside from the two criminal trials, led to him being fined in 2003 and 2004 by french and us financial market regulators. "you can be proud without being arrogant," he told the court. "at the time, i gave the impression of arrogance, not of pride."--ends--
world markets shaky as european debt fears remain japan's stock market today hit its lowest closing level in more than five months amid ongoing worries over the global implications of the european debt crisis. japan's benchmark nikkei index shed 26.14 points, or 0.3%, to 9,758.40, its lowest close since early december, after earlier falling as low as 9,693.07. japanese exporters were hit, on fears that they could suffer if europe's economic recovery is derailed. most japanese bank shares rose, though, following their us peers higher as a major regulatory overhaul of wall street firms turned out to be less onerous than many had feared. other asian stock markets rose today, led by china, with investors taking heart from the late rally on wall street on friday. china's shanghai composite index rose 3.1% to 2,664.65, south korea's kospi edged up 0.6% to 1,610.44 and hong kong's hang seng gained 0.6% to 19,657.88.
pension deficits threaten 1 in 10 ftse firms almost one in ten blue-chip ftse-100 companies face pension scheme deficits so vast they threaten the future of the business, a survey has discovered. the report says that only five ftse-100 pension funds are in surplus, and predicts that final salary pension schemes at top companies could end within three years. the survey by pension capital strategies in association with investment bank group jp morgan cazenove says nine of britain's biggest listed companies face pension liabilities greater than their stock market value – a situation which pcs says "represents a material risk to the business". the survey also reveals that pension funds missed out on the benefit of soaring equity markets in the year to the end of march, because they have continued to switch their investments into bonds. three years ago the average pension scheme allocated 34% to bonds, but this has now risen to 50%. pcs says that with cash in short supply it expects pension trustees to be increasingly open to approaches to deficit funding. instead of cash, they could be persuaded to take other assets. sainsbury's and marks & spencer, for instance, have recently announced property partnership deals with their schemes worth a total of more than £1bn towards reducing their deficits. while deficit funding is up, there has been a marked decline in the provision of defined benefit pensions to staff. the costs linked to continuing provision fell 15% last year – "one of the clearest signs yet that we are coming to the end of the road for final salary schemes", said charles cowling, managing director of pcs. he predicted that final salary schemes could be extinct in big companies by 2013: "if reductions continue at this rate, final salary schemes will have six years left of life; if the trend accelerates, which is likely given recent announcements of pension scheme closures, then the lifespan of the final salary scheme may be as little as two to three years." the costs of running final salary schemes have risen dramatically in recent years as a result of tax changes, low interest rates, poor investment returns and increasing life expectancy. the five companies with the best funded schemes, and which still have surpluses, are old mutual, prudential, investec, land securities and the london stock exchange
ftse falls 3% on german shorting ban, while home retail struggles on another volatile day for the stock market thanks to germany's surprise ban on short selling european debt, one of the biggest fallers on the ftse 100 was suffering because of more domestic concerns. the stock has been supported recently by share buybacks and m&a hopes. while acquiring argos would fulfil the ambitions of certain food retailers, we note that a competition commission reference would be almost certain, separating argos and homebase may be costly, and that two of the big four uk grocers have new ceos. on trading, hughes added: earnings risks are rising, with the new government possibly tightening fiscal policy more rapidly than expected. vat may rise sooner, and sterling has continued to decline versus the dollar. the first quarter may start off slowly with more competition in electricals, and cooler weather affecting homebase. best buy may only have one store but its website pricing in the autumn is likely to be very aggressive. we estimate argos a 5% fall in first quarter like for like sales. for the full year we now assume a 2% like for like fall from a 1% decline as second half catch-up may be harder. this gives a £10m downgrade. homebase is still based on +1% full year like for like sales, with broadly flat earnings befolre interest and tax. in such a febrile market rumours were rife, including unsubstantiated talk that the european central bank was ready to intervene to support the euro and even speculation - immediately denied - that greece was about to leave the single currency. among the uk banks, we are wary of barclays. it has meaningful retail and corporate operations in spain (although it is unknown what exact proportion of the group this comprises) and an undisclosed ownership of spanish sovereign debt. the company will likely make acquisitions during the year and the bid pipeline is stronger than at the beginning of the calendar year. but the company will continue to pay out excess cash to shareholders going forward - so this buyback scheme could be ongoing. in a buy note on experian ubs said: we still find the valuation attractive relative to slower growing peer equifax, historical valuation levels, our fundamental discounted cash flow valuation, and given what is now a more compelling cash return story. we continue to view improvement in core us credit operations as a key fundamental driver over the coming 12 months. at the time of the ipo [in 2007], blinkx talked about the potential to launch transaction hijacking software. this is software that recognizes when users are about to buy something online and, before a sale is completed, displays options for purchasing the same good from rival retailers at a cheaper price. this software, branded 'cheep', is currently in closed beta and should be released to the public in the the second half of 2010. this presents a potential opportunity for blinkx to enter the very dynamic affiliate marketing/price comparison market. some traders believe the company would be an attractive target for a larger group such as google.
jupiter asset management plans stock market float that could raise £300m jupiter asset management, one of britain's biggest retail investment fund groups, has announced plans to return to the stock market in a move that could generate more than £300m in cash windfall payments for private equity backers, star fund managers and company directors, led by chief executive edward bonham carter. despite weeks of market volatility, jupiter's management and us buyout house ta associates are pressing ahead with flotation plans that could value the business at up to £1bn. the move follows a string of aborted or stalled new issues, including new look, merlin entertainments and hotel bookings firm travelport. share sales and the issue of new shares would see management reduce its equity share holdings from 80% to about 50%. new investors are expected to take up a free float of about 30% with ta acquiring shares to keep its holding steady at 20% for the first six months. the majority of the £220m proceeds from the issue of new shares will go to repay shareholder-owned debt. about 80% of these preference securities are held by ta, with the balance controlled by a small number of senior figures at jupiter. top fund managers such as tony nutt and philip gibbs as well as directors have agreed to a three-year phased lock-in and vesting period for before further share sales. the capital-raising is not expected significantly to reduce the group's net bank debt which management believe is already at a comfortable level given jupiter's high cash generation. net debt at float is expected to be about £150m. float plans come three years after bonham carter led a buyout from commerzbank in the summer of 2007, just weeks before the credit crunch brought an abrupt end to large debt-fuelled private equity deals. it was one of the last buyout transactions to secure so-called "covenant-lite" terms. jupiter, meanwhile, has weathered the credit crunch rather better despite having a strong focus on the british stock market. it has even lured back some fund managers who had gone to new star. gibbs became a hero for many investors after his financial opportunities fund returned 7% in 2008. identifying trouble ahead for the banks, in november 2007 he placed half the fund in cash and bonds and invested heavily outside britain, benefiting from the weakening pound.
glencore considers flotation on london stock market to raise £4bn   glencore, the world's biggest commodities trader, is to raise up to €5bn (£4.2bn) in one of the biggest flotations on the london stock market, according to city sources. analysts value the company at €45bn. proceeds from a flotation will be used to expand the mining side of glencore's business, with the swiss-based company looking at acquisitions in brazil, australia and south africa. glencore took the first step towards becoming a public company recently by issuing up to $2.2bn (£1.5bn) in convertible bonds to strategic investors in the us, singapore and china. "the mix of investors is typical of what you would expect in a pre-initial public offering", a commodities banker said. glencore said that the bonds were convertible "into glencore shares upon a qualifying ipo or upon other pre-determined qualifying events". a flotation is pencilled in for 2011, but could come earlier if the economic recovery gathers steam and prices continue their upward trajectory. glencore's increasing openness further moves it away from its roots under marc rich, the oil trader who founded glencore in 1974 but later sold out to management. in 1983, rudolph giuliani, then a us prosecutor, indicted rich for tax evasion and he became a fugitive in switzerland. on leaving office in 2001, president bill clinton pardoned rich. some observers suggest preparation for a flotation is the precursor to a merger with xstrata [see footnote], which could create a natural resources group valued at more than $50bn. sources say that the merger option is the preferred route for ivan glasenberg, glencore's chief executive, and there have been reports that executives have met xstrata shareholders. a merger of glencore and xstrata is being seen as the best way for glencore to go public, because the companies are connected. glencore owns a significant number of xstrata shares. willy strothotte is chairman of both companies. and glencore was instrumental in creating xstrata: in 2001 it sold coal assets to the then-fledgling mining company and those assets became xstrata's bedrock for its 2002 flotation. "glasenberg would love to have all the mining assets and the trading assets combined under one roof," said an executive familiar with glencore's thinking. xstrata boss mick davis could be receptive. he built his company through a string of acquisitions, but his boldest bid – to merge xstrata with anglo american – failed last year. in a recent speech davis reiterated xstrata's "commitment to scale and diversity as key sources of advantage in an increasingly globalising and consolidating mining industry." but agreeing a valuation of glencore with xstrata investors could prove tricky and may force glencore to float first before considering anything else. an extra benefit of such a move, say observers, would be that it would force the trader to adapt to an independent board and other aspects of public corporate governance. this could lessen the culture shock of merging with a ftse 100 company. glencore is seeking a flotation because, as a private company led by a partnership, its growth options are few. relying on the bond markets limits its ability to make big acquisitions. if it could raise equity on the stock market, the company could expand more rapidly and take much bigger strides along the way. it is thought that glencore is being advised by morgan stanley and credit suisse, while xstrata has retained goldman sachs [see footnote].
us new house sales hit record low the ftse 100 sank to a seven-week low last night as fresh gloom from the us raised the prospect of recession gripping the global economy once again. a record low for sales of new us homes combined with news of stuttering orders for manufacturers to underline fears that the world's largest economy could be heading for a double-dip downturn. speculation grew that central bankers will be forced to step in with fresh support for the fledgling recovery as the us government said new orders for durable goods such as cars, machinery and household appliances rose a meagre 0.3% last month. that was well below the 2.8% rise forecast by analysts. stocks opened lower on wall street, oil prices fell and the dollar weakened after the data. shares remained in the red as separate data followed showing new single family home sales slid 12.4% in july to a 276,000 annual rate. that was the lowest since records began in 1963 and confounded expectations for the pace to hold steady. with investors fretting about knock-on effects globally following a series of downbeat us indicators, the ftse 100 ended down 46.6 points, or 0.9%, at 5109.4, the lowest close since early july. yields on 10-year uk government bonds set a fresh record low of 2.79% as us jitters continued to fuel a rush for safe-haven assets. "the us housing market is imploding alongside its economy; poor manufacturing, retail and activity surveys have stripped away the veneer of an american recovery and the market has realised that the emperor is not wearing any clothes," said jeremy cook, chief economist, currency exchange broker world first. "as a result, 'haven' assets such as the japanese yen and the swiss franc are powering to record highs and the yield on government debt is tumbling as investors continue their flight to quality." economists raised particular concerns over signs in the orders data that investment by us companies was stalling and so was unlikely to provide support to the wider economy. orders for capital goods unexpectedly slumped 8%, excluding the defence sector and aircraft. rob carnell, at ing financial markets, predicted that business investment growth would slow in the third quarter, "which will cost around 1 percentage point of gdp growth, and keep fears of a double dip and more quantitative easing on investors' minds". it was the prospect of more support from central bankers in the form of quantitative easing (qe) or fresh government stimulus packages that helped to contain losses on us stock markets. after an initial drop on wall street that saw the dow jones industrial average topple through the psychologically important 10,000 mark, shares regained some poise by the time london closed. with mid-term congressional elections in november, pressure is mounting on the obama administration to adopt further measures to boost the economy. for investors, the recent flow of weak figures has also increased the prospect of the us central bank embarking on more qe - a system whereby it buys securities in the market and thereby pumps electronic money into the economy. markets will be scouring a speech on friday by ben bernanke, the federal reserve chairman, for any hints. the us federal reserve's policy committee under the leadership of bernanke has reportedly become increasingly split over how much more support is needed and when. the picture will become clearer when the federal open market committee publishes the minutes from its latest meeting next week. according to the wall street journal, the gathering was "among the most contentious" in bernanke's four-and-a-half year tenure as fed chairman. the newspaper described divisions over the technical issue of how the fed manages the portfolio of securities that has built up during its qe spree. at the same time there was a more fundamental debate over what action to take next over the spluttering recovery and weak inflation. at the 10 august meeting, the fed took a cautious step towards pumping extra liquidity into the financial system through an operation described as "qe lite". it decided to reinvest the proceeds of its maturing holdings of mortgage-backed securities by putting the funds into treasury bonds. but many economists believe the move will be followed by more full-blown qe before the end of the year.
us investors win right to challenge runaway boardroom pay packets investors have won enhanced powers to challenge runaway pay packets and poor management at the top of the us business world under contentious rules approved today that make it easier for shareholders to unseat directors of wall street-listed companies. in an outcome cheered by unions but vehemently opposed by business lobbyists, the securities and exchange commission voted by a narrow margin of 3-2 to allow investors holding more than 3% of a company's stock to put their own nominees for boardroom seats on election ballots sent out in advance of annual meetings. the change amounts to a historic shift in the balance of power in the us corporate world, where shareholders have traditionally had only very limited sway over the direction of companies. "as a matter of fairness and accountability, long-term significant shareholders should have a means of nominating candidates to the boards of the companies they own," said the sec's chairman, mary schapiro, who described the change as one of the most contentious issues ever addressed by her agency. to date, investors who want to nominate board members have had to finance their own proxy battles and pay for mailshots to shareholders – an expensive and cumbersome process that only well-resourced fund management firms or activist billionaires have been able to afford. an umbrella organisation of us unions, the afl-cio, applauded the greater access afforded by the provision, which is likely to be used to challenge multimillion-dollar boardroom bonuses. richard trumka, president of the afl-cio, described it as "an important and historic step in empowering long-term investors". not everybody, however, is pleased. business leaders portray it as an unwelcome distraction, arguing that it will force companies to devote valuable time and resources at the height of an economic slowdown to challenges brought by special interest groups. david hirschmann, head of capital markets competitiveness at the us chamber of commerce, described it as "a giant step backwards" for average investors: "using the proxy process to give labour union pension funds and others greater leverage to try to ram through their agenda makes no sense."
shareholder trading values facebook at more than $33bn facebook is now being valued at more than $33bn (£21.3bn) as investors try to secure a stake in the social networking site in anticipation of its flotation on the us stock market. the latest data shows that shares in facebook are changing hands for up to $76 each, more than double their value at the start of this year. while facebook is still privately held, shareholders are able to sell the company's stock through "secondary market" trading. by buying at these prices, some investors are calculating that facebook is worth more than ebay or dell, or nearly twice as much as yahoo!. secondary market trading can artificially inflate the value of a private company, as the relative scarcity of its shares may encourage a buyer to overpay. but with founder mark zuckerberg thought to be planning to float facebook in the next couple of years, there is already strong interest in what would be the tech sector's biggest ipo since google went public six years ago. technology and internet companies tend to be valued on relatively high "multiples" – the ratio of their market capitalisation to their annual earnings. apple, for example, was worth $219bn when wall street closed last night and is expected to deliver profits of nearly $13bn in 2010. that gives apple a price-to-earnings ratio of around 17x based on this year's performance. yahoo has a p/e ratio of almost 22x, while google's p/e ratio is 19.5x. it is also benefiting from the smartphone boom – communications regulator ofcom reported last week that 45% of all mobile internet use in the uk was spent on facebook. however, it has repeatedly faced criticism over privacy issues, and users may resist efforts to "mine" their personal information so it can be used to drive revenue growth. in 2007, facebook sold a 1.6% stake to microsoft for $240m, a deal that valued the whole social networking firm at $15bn. this was after zuckerberg had rejected a $1bn takeover offer from yahoo!. he also reportedly rebuffed microsoft's efforts to buy the whole company. an ipo might not happen until 2012, and some technology analysts believe there is still time for zuckerberg to receive an offer he cannot refuse. "microsoft could used facebook as a portal for all their cloud services. they could include ms office, and a prominent bing search box," holway suggested. "apple popularised the app, and facebook is the most used app of all. both facebook and apple apps bypass google main revenue stream – sponsored search. google is the company with the most to fear right now." (market capitalisation based on last night's closing prices)
markets shaken by weakness of us goods orders financial markets were spooked again today by us double-dip fears as orders for durable goods were weaker than expected and american companies appeared to cut back investment sharply. stocks opened lower on wall street, the ftse 100 extended its losses, oil prices fell and the dollar weakened as the us government said new orders for durable goods such as cars, machinery and household appliances rose a meagre 0.3% last month. this was much lower than the 2.8% rise forecast by economists in a reuters poll. excluding equipment for the transport sector – seen as particularly volatile – orders fell 3.8%, the biggest drop for 18 months, and confounded expectations for a modest 0.5% rise. rob carnell at ing financial markets said the durable goods numbers "throw more doubt on the resilience of the us recovery" and that business investment growth was likely to slow in the third quarter, "which will cost around 1 percentage point of gdp growth, and keep fears of a double dip and more quantitative easing on investors minds". aneta markowska at société générale painted a similar outlook: "after strong business investment figures in the second quarter which look on track to be revised up, we are likely to see a significant loss of momentum in the second half of the year. durable data reaffirms the recent weakness in regional manufacturing surveys and suggests that the resiliency in industrial production figures is unlikely to last." the data follows news yesterday that us home sales slumped twice as fast as expected last month, to hit a 15-year low. those figures rattled stock markets in the us and europe, and government bonds rallied as investors sought out safe-haven investments. today the ftse 100 was down more than 1.2%, or 64 points, at 5091.5, extending losses of about 50 points before the durable goods data. the dow jones industrial average dropped about 30 points, or 0.3%, to 10009 at the opening bell on wall street, putting it on track for the fifth straight session of losses. on uk government bond markets, yields on 10-year gilts set a fresh record low of 2.79%. traders will have more to go on at 3pm in the uk when us new home sales data is published.
fears grow of double-dip slump after us home sales plummet fears intensified yesterday that the us was heading for a double dip recession that could reverberate around the world after figures showed american home sales slumped twice as fast as expected last month to a 15-year low. the main new york stock market fell through the psychologically important 10,000 level and the london exchange was also down sharply as global markets were rattled by news that sales of previously owned us homes dropped by a record 27% last month. oil prices went into reverse and commodities declined as traders digested the news that the world's largest economy was a long way from recovery and could slip back into recession. the july drop dwarfed predictions of a 13% fall in sales expected following the withdrawal of a housebuying tax credit introduced last year to boost sales. analysts said they would look closely at a speech later this week by federal reserve chairman ben bernanke, who is expected to comment on prospects for the economy and the need for further government action to stimulate growth. pressure on the obama administration to adopt further measures to boost the economy are expected to intensify in the run-up to mid-term congressional elections in november. ireland, portugal and spain also saw their borrowing costs jump.martin weale, the most recent government appointee to the bank of england monetary policy committee, said in an interview with the times that there was a risk of a double dip recession in the uk. he said the weakness of the recovery meant the economy could falter and anyone who ruled out the possibility of a return to negative growth was "foolish". austerity measures will be outlined by the coalition government after the comprehensive spending review in october, which will outline how ministers plan to cut between 25% and 40% from whitehall spending over the next five years. concerns that europe will follow the us back into recession also gained ground after greek bond yields, which govern the interest rate paid by the government on its borrowing, spiralled to 11.3%. us economist joseph stiglitz said european governments were manufacturing a return to recession with cuts in areas that would spur recovery. he said a determination to limit government borrowing to 3% of national income was "bizarre". the columbia university professor told irish radio: "cutting back willy-nilly on high-return investments just to make the picture of the deficit look better is really foolish. "because so many in europe are focusing on the 3% artificial number, which has no reality and is just looking at one side of a balance sheet, europe is at risk of going into a double-dip." on the foreign exchange markets the dollar fell against most other major currencies although it was still up against the pound which was hit by weale and stiglitz's double-dip comments. their warnings and fears about the us economy left investors flocking to the safe-haven of bonds. yields on 10-year gilts in the uk were at a record low of 2.88%. nick beecroft, senior markets consultant at saxo bank, described the session as the "day the 'sum of all fears' took root in the mind of the market". he said: "fears about growth in europe, asia and the us, where calamitous existing home sales figures were the focus … deflation, the strength of the yen, the lingering euro zone sovereign debt problem – you name it, the market has a frightening selection of fears from which to choose." richard batty, investment director at standard life, said the us housing market data was "shocking" and showed almost nobody wanted to buy a home. the us is being closely watched for signals of troubles to come in the uk as it typically leads other economies by several months. recent downbeat news on the us has ranged from signs that unemployment remains stubbornly high to weak activity across most business sectors. teunis brosens at ing financial markets described the july home sales reading as a headlong plunge. "these are truly dismal numbers, adding to the recent flurry of data suggesting that the recovery of the us economy is faltering," he said. . he pointed out that some of the fall was down to the expiry of a government scheme that had "artificially propped up" the market over the past year. while on paper the us housing market makes up a smaller part of the economy following the crash, new signs of stagnation are likely to dent consumer confidence. that coupled with the prospect of deflation will hit spending, economists warn. "the hard-pressed western consumer, already fearful over employment prospects and desperately trying to rebuild their balance sheet, will be the first to delay discretionary purchases of every kind if they feel they will be cheaper in a year's time," said saxo bank's beecroft.
investments head east as major markets stagnate the jakarta composite index had a relatively quiet day, climbing 11.01 points, or 0.4%, to close at 3,128. but a year ago the index was worth almost a third less at 2,235. by comparison the ftse 100 has done little more than provide day traders with mild heart failure. an index that languished at 4,800 last september moved up to 5,800 before the election only to dive again to 4,800. today it finished up slightly at 5,234. markets in japan and new york have followed much the same sideways path. so what do the smaller far eastern markets have that we don't? could it be the sparkling narrative from investment banks about a bright future built on commodities such as coal, zinc, tin and copper. surely not when most commodities have failed to regain their april highs and slowing chinese growth is already reversing. it must be that these markets have gained simply because they hold the promise of gains away from stagnating western markets. the vast savings of companies and wealthy individuals sloshing around the global financial system, which runs to trillions of pounds, is constantly looking for a home. it wants the highest returns. at the moment malaysia, indonesia and thailand are among the lucky recipients. lucky that is until someone points out share values are over inflated and bear little relation to future profits. as more money flows into markets the index rises, when investors take fright and move their money out, the indexes will collapse. for the time being, these countries will talk about their economic miracle and what great places they are for investors, but it won't last. a bubble is a bubble and before long it will burst. brazil is talked about as the next beneficiary/victim of investor cash. it largely escaped the financial crisis and is growing strongly on the back of exports to the west. the risk comes when financial advisers identify the country as the "next big thing" and the hot money flows out of indonesia in favour of sau paulo. all these countries should be wary of providing a home for investor cash when it is fickle and in the main without allegiance or scruple. like a teen lover, it is always on the lookout for the next conquest.
city boy for a day: i was at a loss will de lucy and piers curran are the founders of amplify, a trading house which also trains students to become traders themselves. their hope is that graduates, older workers and even those made redundant during the recession will see trading as a chance to begin or re-launch their stuttering careers. the company offers training and internships, lasting for up to four months, which can lead to a longer-term career with amplify, or simply help students develop a career in banking and finance. students learn and trade using a simulated platform; if they are in profit or have not lost money on the pretend account at the end of their training, amplify will back them with its own funds in the live markets, increasing their size and market exposure as they improve. those who do not stay on will leave with industry-recognised professional certificates. this year, amplify will take on about 165 trainees, while the investment banking sector as a whole has so far taken on 2,200 graduates in 2010. i enter a training room with three other journalists. we're chucked in at the deep end, bombarded with information about candlestick charts, s&p500 futures contracts, oil, the euro debt crisis, the double-dip recession and u-shaped curves. shorting is when you sell an asset, going long is when you buy it. i switch off while curran explains something about the reasons for the euro collapsing; instead, i begin to wonder if his suit is tailored and, if it is, how many pork bellies it would take to buy one. we are told that it takes 0.05 seconds for a trade to go live from the moment you click buy or sell. that's how quickly fortunes are made or lost. "the software needs to be fast because you need to be able to react," de lucy explains. later, i will see just how fast the market moves as i watch, aghast, at my mounting losses. psychology is key. beginners often want to exit a trade the second they achieve a decent profit, regardless of whether it's the right time or not. they do not have the confidence to stay in the market even when the signs are telling them to because they are terrified the gains they have already made could be wiped out. similarly, if they lose money one day, they must retain their objectivity the next so that they do not begin making irrational decisions in order to recover their losses. "it's a marathon, not a sprint," warns de lucy. our brief lesson over, we are given three asset classes to trade with using the simulator: oil, the s&p500 and the euro/dollar. within 15 minutes i'm down $200 (£128), mainly from trading oil. three minutes later i turn that into a $35 profit and am staggered at how quickly money can be made or lost. after 20 minutes my profit has edged up to $47.50, but is wiped out just 60 seconds later when a bad oil short sends me $25 into the red. i begin to fall into one of the psychological traps we had been warned about. whenever i see profit stretching above $100, my right-hand immediately reaches for the mouse and i hurriedly click "sell" to bank the gain, not having the confidence to back my positions for more than a minute or two. but it's a strategy that pays immediate dividends. after half an hour of trading i have a profit of $157.50; after 45 minutes it's $477.50 and after an hour $967.50. this is easy, i think. but it soon becomes clear that my strategy is not based on market data, studious analysis of charts or behavioural finance – i am simply guessing. for the first hour, i guess correctly and patiently build my profits. it takes just two minutes to see it all wiped out by a disastrous decision; i gamble on the oil price continuing to rise just as it collapses. a red arrow blips repeatedly on my screen, numbers tumble down it, and my profit quickly morphs into a loss of $182. we put our headsets on and listen to curran talking to amplify traders around the world, telling them what they should be looking out for, where the levels of support or resistance are across the indices and asset classes they trade. his disciples in spain, hong kong, new york and elsewhere respond in a live chat window with messages such as, "if the euro continues to climb, yes oil can go higher". all have passed through the london offices, most as trainees. the trainees pay £1,500 for two months of training but only two or three out of 10 trainees stay with the company – the ones who display consistently good risk management. the lucky few get to keep 60% of their profits, while their losses are covered by amplify. a newbie will be able to buy or sell just one contract a trade and will be set their own stop/loss level to ensure they can only lose a maximum of about $225 in any day. within six months they will be given more responsibility and larger sums to play with. given the risk controls placed on new traders, de lucy says they can expect to earn between £2,000 and 3,000 by the third or fourth month: "if you're any good, you'll always be profitable at the end of each week." so who is best-placed to become a trader? curran had an engineering degree when he began his career in finance more than a decade ago, while de lucy had a degree in economics, something he says he rarely uses today. "the course is intense, so a background in finance is useful, but other degrees aren't a problem," de lucy explains. he says good traders tend to have an entrepreneurial streak: "this is because they alone have to take responsibility for their decisions. also, although trading itself can be very rewarding, people who need to know they have certainty and security can feel uncomfortable in this environment and this can be reflected in reduced confidence and poor-decision making in the markets." around one in 15 applicants applies to amplify looking for a career change, though most of these older applicants are usually already working somewhere in the finance industry. "funnily enough, they tend to be among those who don't stay on after their training," de lucy says. he looks over my shoulder at the computer screen and casually says that, judging by the amount of oil trades i am making, it looks like i have an "itchy trigger finger". a lot of new traders "get killed" on oil, because the price moves around a lot, he adds ominously. each time i make a loss i feel a bit stupid and my head is filled with imagery of depression-era bankers leaping to their doom from the roofs of wall street. when i make money, my confidence grows and i'm transformed into a fist-pumping, pinstripe-wearing city boy. it's exhausting. but the truth is, making money anonymously like this, with no end product except profit or loss, just doesn't motivate me. it's addictive, yes, but only in the way a computer game like tetris might divert you for 20 minutes. perhaps this is because i am merely playing at being a trader rather than putting expert knowledge to use. the depth of knowledge required is evident when curran shows us a graph of barack obama's latest popularity rating, something i had thought would be of more interest to those involved in politics. i was wrong. each time the president's popularity poll is updated, markets can move because of what he might do in response to regain his popularity among the american public, such as a tax-break or some kind of improved fiscal stimulus that might result in job creation and consumers returning to the shops. this in turn might stimulate economic growth and boost equity and oil prices. "the us consumer has a pavlovian response to more money in their pockets and that is to head to the shops," de lucy says. then there's the behavioural finance, weather patterns, macro-economics, geo-political tensions. it all gets fed into a trader's head and is processed to inform every buy/sell decision. analyse badly and you lose money. analyse well and you make money. "you need to be a jack of all trades," says curran. in the amplify office, all this is happening at a frightening rate, with televisions blaring out financial news, traders' voices coming through headsets, numbers and ideas and comments and suggestions scrolling relentlessly across traders' screens. i find it all stressful and begin to lose confidence as i tire. "if someone isn't confident, they can begin to second-guess themselves," de lucy says. "we call it 'trader killer', when they can't get over their fear and every decision is polluted by sentiment." almost all new traders see a 70% dip in performance when they go from the simulation to live trading and also when they have their trading size increased. if anything were to make me want to work at amplify long-term, it would be the people. de lucy and curran are likeable guys. i see de lucy comforting and motivating a young intern who is tentatively entering the market the day after making heavy losses. he cuts through any sentiment and attempts to bring the trainee back to the basics of what he has learned and to have confidence in what he knows. it is nothing like the cut-throat, alpha-male posturing i would have expected from a city trading firm. ironically, only a couple of journalists celebrate their trading wins with loud cries of victory. as i pose for a photographer and pretend to win outrageously on the stock market, i realise that, despite all the analysis, knowledge and training, trading is still a little like gambling, with the traders trying to stack the odds in their favour using any piece of information they can get their hands on. if it wasn't like gambling, there would be no lehman brothers bankruptcy, no long-term capital management bail-out, no credit crunch in 2007. how did i get on? at the end of the day, i made a profit of $580, but de lucy tells me i made far too many trades in oil (about 170) and the trading fees have consequently turned my profit into a loss of $233. i was praised for a single trade on the s&p because i held my position for almost two hours. "really nice patience there, which is uncommon for a new trader," he says. "it's a shame you were addicted to oil." it's clear that a trading career is not for me, but there is nothing to stop people interested in finance signing up. even financiers who over-stretched themselves in the run-up to 2007 might learn a lot – though de lucy and curran might want to keep them on the simulator for longer than usual.
ocado's going cheap, say analysts – but not that cheap funnily enough, everyone seems to the think are shares are cheap at the current price of 142p. goldman sachs thinks they are worth 200p and hsbc opts for 190p. ubs's analyst comes the closest to stepping out of line by declaring fair value at 167p, or 13p below the eventual float price. hold on. wasn't ocado's original ambition to sell shares in a 200p-275p range? indeed it was. surely there must be an analyst out there prepared to venture towards the mid-point of that range? if not, the original valuation range would look even crazier than it did at the time. don't be shy, the reputations of your investment banking colleagues on the other side of the chinese walls are at stake.
lacklustre stock markets halt autumn floats   an array of rumoured flotations that were delayed during the financial crisis but tipped for revival this autumn have been shelved again on fears about the state of the capital markets. goldman sachs, the banker to betfair and virgin active, has been talking up the prospects of both businesses floating this autumn, but advisers to the gym operator confirmed there was little chance of it seeking a listing this year. sources close to betfair suggested market conditions might also scupper the online betting exchange floating this autumn – a much-heralded £1.5bn float that would also be complicated by the fact that it would probably crystallise large losses for softbank, the japanese investor which has a 23% stake in the gambling business. another apax-owned business, the bureau de change group travelex, was also reportedly considering tapping the equity markets this year, but it too plays down becoming a public company during 2010. meanwhile, blackstone-owned travel reservations company travelport, which cancelled its £1.8bn flotation in february, said last month it had "no compunction to list". equity analysts will also be watching closely for worsening economic news that could further undermine any remaining flotation plans over the next few weeks. "us third quarter gdp numbers are set to be announced later this month. that number could conceivably be negative, which would set the cat amongst the pigeons," said one.
world markets fall on economic fears fears over the health of the global economy sent shares falling sharply around the world this morning. the sell-off was most pronounced in japan, where a £6.9bn stimulus package announced yesterday by the japanese government failed to impress investors. the nikkei index shed more than 3.6% in a nervy trading session to close at 8824.06 points, its lowest level since april last year. in london, the ftse 100 fell 70 points in early trading to a low of 5129.66, down 1.3%. there were also losses in other european markets, with the german dax losing 1.1% and the french cac down by 0.9%. the threat of a double-dip recession also continues to loom, according to ben potter, market strategist at ig markets. "there's the idea that any rampant growth we're seeing now is merely going to end up as being the peak between two recessionary troughs," potter warned. there was also concern that us personal incomes rose by just 0.2% last month, less than expected. david buik of bgc partners said this had "added credence to the thought process that the us economy is losing momentum and is wilting under pressure". yesterday the bank of japan announced new measures to encourage japanese banks to lend to each other. this was swiftly followed by a ¥900bn ($6.9bn) stimulus package, but this was denounced as too timid to address japan's problems. the yen is hovering around a 15-year high against the dollar, hurting the country's exporters.
safe investments to beat inflation bank of england governor mervyn king this week warned that the level of inflation will remain above the 2% target for much of next year and, possibly, into 2012. but what can savers do to protect their cash? until recently, billions of pounds was pouring into national savings & investments' index-linked bonds, but these have been withdrawn from sale. many in the city believe that inflation will indeed fall back in 2012, although others worry that "quantitative easing" is creating a timebomb. the man charged with picking investments for the queen's own stockbroker, marcus brookes of cazenove capital, is focused, above all else, on protecting his clients from this problem. he puts it bluntly: "as an investor, if you get this one wrong you could be toast. if you are on the wrong side of the debate you will lose 15% to 20% of the real value of your capital in a very short time, ie, you don't protect yourself from inflation." but there is now a way to buy them from as little as £1 through an exchange-traded fund. etfs are effectively shares which trade on the stockmarket and can be purchased through a stockbroker. they promise to match almost perfectly the price of government-issued, inflation-linked bonds and are seen as very safe. that is because the bank which creates the fund physically buys a sum of the bonds, equal to the value of the fund, and holds them for security. they can be bought and sold easily and have only a minimal annual management charge. the downside is that the etf does not enjoy the special income tax treatment national savings & investment products did, but then nothing else does, either. they can be held within a tax-efficient isa. however, you should check carefully whether the company selling the isa, and buying the etf, charges extra fees. while the etf will match inflation, many people would like to be confident of beating inflation but would also be willing to take a bit more risk to gain a higher return. one way to do this is to invest not just in bonds issued by the government, but also in bonds issued by companies, known as corporate bonds. these carry the risk that if the companies issuing the bonds go bust, the investor could lose all his money.
investing: healthy profits highlight depth of last year's turmoil recession, what recession? that could be the question investors are asking themselves as they study the latest set of half-year results from some of our largest companies. so does this mean we can look forward to a resumption of economic growth and, with it, a return to confidence in the anaemic stock market? alas, probably not. the healthy profits say far more about how awful the economic outlook was this time last year than about where we will be in another 12 months. then it looked as if we were poised for a full-blown depression and companies reacted accordingly, cutting costs and closing peripheral activities. now that disaster has been avoided – at least temporarily – the effect of the cuts has been to boost profits dramatically. but that can only happen once; companies now need a real recovery to keep profits growing, and the chances of that look slim. the banks are no more excited about prospects. given the scale of the write-offs which they all made against bad debts last year, it would have been astonishing if their profits in the first half of the year had not rebounded sharply. but given the plethora of regulatory inquires into everything from how they pay their counter staff, through lending levels to small businesses, to whether the investment and retail banking activities should be separated, there are plenty of clouds on their horizon. "[profit] margins have held up well but are now close to their peak. i would question whether they will continue to achieve those margins given the economic outlook and the prospect of rising input costs [of raw materials]," he says.
bank profits surge and send markets soaring stock markets were buoyed on both sides of the atlantic today as investors cheered better-than-expected profits from the banks and continued growth in manufacturing in most major economies. david jones, chief market strategist at ig index, said it was important the dow jones managed to crack the 10,600 mark, which has been a major obstacle in the past 10 weeks. "this could be the sign that the market is finally shrugging off the pessimism that has seen stocks go broadly nowhere since early may," he said. richard hunter, equity analyst at hargreaves lansdown, britain's largest financial adviser, said strong profits from french bank bnp paribas and hsbc, coupled with manufacturing data showing continued growth in most major economies, had encouraged wary investors back to the market. "more than 70% of firms in the us s&p 500 index have beaten expectations so far this year. combined with recent data showing continued economic growth, investor fears of the global economy stalling have eased. asian markets shrugged off slowing manufacturing growth in china as a sign that the economy would avoid overheating next year. however, hunter warned that soaring company profits, especially those of larger corporations, were becoming divorced from the wider economy in both the uk and us. "there is a disconnect between the larger companies that have already been through the pain and made redundancies and the wider economy, which is supported by government spending. with all governments looking to make steep cuts, there are obviously problems ahead." a slowdown in export orders last month hit britain's manufacturing base, according to the latest markit purchasing managers' index (pmi), fuelling concerns that slow growth in the eurozone and a resurgent pound would choke off a recovery in orders. uk manufacturing maintained its steady growth during july, but largely supported by domestic orders that left the index down only slightly from 57.6 at 57.3. sluggish growth in the eurozone – expected to be around 0.5% this year – could also prove a drag on uk exports. economists echoed hunter's warning that the second half of 2010 could prove a difficult environment for manufacturers because of the strength of sterling, which this morning rose to a six-month high against the dollar, at $1.588. andrew goodwin, senior economic adviser to forecasting group the ernst & young item club, said that while the figures showed uk manufacturing continued to grow at a strong pace,the detail of the survey betrayed worrying trends: "in particular, the fact that growth in export orders appears to have stalled. it is encouraging that domestic orders have been able to offset external weakness over the past couple of months, but it would be unrealistic to expect this to continue given the headwinds that are likely to buffet the domestic sector over the next couple of years. the second quarter will probably represent the high point of quarterly manufacturing output growth, though this balance still points to growth of more than 1% for the third quarter," he said. alan clarke, uk economist at bnp paribas, said: "the breakdown showed export orders fell three-quarters of a point to 50.75, the lowest since last august and down around 10 points in the last four months – a sign that a cooling-off in overseas demand is beginning to hit home." clarke warned that the services sector, which represents the bulk of the uk economy, is a bigger risk. "this sector has seen its pmi falling for four consecutive months and is four points off the peak," he said. "last month's services sector markit/cips pmi saw the expectations component collapse, which is typically a good guide to the future evolution of the headline index. hence wednesday's july update will be crucial to how the more weighty services sector is likely to affect overall growth."clarke said recent positive figures for the uk, including growth of 1.1% in the second quarter of the year, could represent a high-water mark before the economy slips back. steep cuts in government spending and higher taxes are expected to bite later this year and into 2011. across the eurozone, manufacturing was strongest in germany by a wide margin – accelerating sharply to hit a three-month high. italy saw growth accelerate to a pace matching april's post-recession peak and spain also saw output rise at the fastest pace since april. france, the netherlands, ireland and austria, on the other hand, all saw growth slow compared to post-recession peaks seen earlier in the year.
jersey shore cast ring wall street's opening bell anway, the stock exchange enjoyed one of its most crowded days in years as michael "the situation" sorrentino, pauly "dj pauly d" del vecchio, nicole "snooki" polizzi, jenni "j-woww" farley and friends grinned from ear to ear over the trading floor. the jersey shore cast were on wall street courtesy of mtv's nyse-listed owner, viacom, to mark the debut of their second series in the us this week. they didn't hang around for a chat, though. on the business channel cnbc, anchor mark haines complained: "we often interview the ringers of the opening bell, but the jersey shore's handlers are not allowing them to talk. they're allowed to stand and smile, but not to talk." wouldn't it have been fun to hear snooki's thoughts on subprime mortgage-related derivatives?
stock market offers opportunities to negate inflation in fact, the demand for these certificates was probably due less to a fear of rampant inflation per se, than to the fact an unexpected surge in rpi to 5% had made their interest rate – which was set at 1% above rpi depending on the term of the certificate – very attractive, particularly when it was tax free. it is impossible to find savings rates approaching that anywhere else, which means if inflation stays at this level the buying power of money left on deposit is actually being eroded. there are some other ways to inflation-proof your investments, however. the closest alternative to the withdrawn certificates are index-linked gilts – government-issued bonds which track rpi. but unlike ns&i products these have not been overly popular – their return so far this year is the lowest of all government bonds. and unlike ns&i there is no guarantee you will get your money back – the price of all gilts will rise and fall depending on investor sentiment. unfortunately, the same is true of the other main way of inflation-proofing your portfolio: investing in the stock market. while, over the long term, the return on shares is well ahead of inflation, the time horizon is key – as anyone who has endured a dismal performance on equities over the past decade will testify. while many strategists argue that stock markets currently look attractive on a long-term view, uncertainty in the economy means share prices could just as easily fall significantly before they start moving up again. those who are prepared to take that risk can put together a portfolio of companies that not only offers a reasonable income now, but will continue to do well – and, therefore, pay increasing dividends – regardless of the level of inflation. it is possible to put together a portfolio of companies which yield far more than that. individual shares such as vodafone, bus operator firstgroup, national grid and standard life all yield more than 6%. and there are a few companies which have managed to grow their dividends every year for more than a decade – tesco, morrisons and british american tobacco and imperial tobacco among them. killik & co recommends a portfolio of 10 companies, all of which currently pay good dividends with the potential for further growth and which, crucially, also have what is called good dividend cover. this means their annual earnings are substantially more than their annual dividends so they have the scope to continue paying, or even increasing, dividends even if their earnings stagnate or fall. these companies are vodafone, firstgroup, glaxosmithkline, bat, astrazeneca, j sainsbury plc, centrica, halfords, pearson and melrose. this would be a diverse portfolio covering a range of sectors and company sizes. but investors would need a substantial sum of money to buy into them all – and the fewer shares you buy, the bigger the risk to your money should one of them go wrong.
europe's bank stress tests - as it happened it's judgement day for europe's banks. in the next few hours the european union will publish full details of the health checks that have been conducted on major and minor financial institutions across the region. these test have the power to reassure investors that the banking sector is in robust shape, or spark a new wave of panic. while there has been concern in the markets that if enough banks do not fail the stress tests they will not prove to be credible, credit suisse analysts also point out that many banks in the 27 eu countries have already raised funds – including in greece, spain and ireland, whose economy has been crippled by the property downturn. the market is comparing the eu tests to the one conducted by the us in may 2009, when 10 large banks needed to raise $65bn (£43bn) of fresh funds. the credit suisse experts point out the european banking sector has already been bolstered by €200bn (£170bn) since then. as cyclos securities analyst constantinos vergos put it: "the market expects that atebank will need to recapitalise after this afternoon's stress test results." as the wall street journal pointed out, atebank is also a likely casualty as it has been used to inject funds into greece's farming sector for many years - and many of those loans have been defaulted on. its banks team and european portfolio strategy team canvassed 386 experts, and has concluded that 10 banks will fail the tests today. that is a bigger strike rate than we'd been expecting. goldman also reckons that the tests will show a shortfall of €38bn. digging into the survey, there are some outlying forecasts - with a few participants saying that at least 20 banks could fail. at the other end of the graph, some people think you'll be able to count the failures on the fingers of one hand. as goldman puts it: "there appears to be very little consensus about the outcome, how much will be raised and what the impact will be." tumpel-gugerell also told the european economics and financial centre that: it is important to remember that the markets are still acting cautiously in the build-up to the bank stress test results and that the currency markets are likely to fluctuate after 5pm today. that's the verdict of ralph silva, director of silva research network. he has predicted that the banks will dodge the issue by simply claiming that they will recapitalise themselves from another bank based in another country in the event of a crisis. silva also questioned the timing of the tests: "you don't ask someone to run a marathon a week after they broke their leg. we are stress testing the banks in a position where they are recovering," he said. "by doing these stress tests what we are in fact doing is highlighting the problems that are going to stop them from lending instead of encouraging them to lend," silva added. it's also worth noting that if everyone passes, the tests won't have much validity. some banks has to fail to prove the tests are rigorous, basically, but not too many as to suggest the whole sector is shot. although they are thought to assume a theoretical 25% drop in the value of relevant government bonds (eg, the price at which they are traded between investors), they don't actually include the possibility of a european country actually defaulting on its debts. the european commission, for instance, is trying to calm fears that its decision to allow spain and portugal to extend state support to their banks until the end of the year is not related to the stress tests. the commission's decision to make the announcement today - just hours ahead of the results of the stress tests - had raised alarm in the markets that europe's regulators were rushing to put in safety measures ahead of news that banks in the two countries had failed the tests. but a commission spokesman told reuters: "the timing of this is completely unrelated to the publication of stress tests later today." now moody's has its eyes on hungary after it ended talks with the imf and eu on a €20bn (£17bn) aid deal. hungarian premier victor orban has said he will no longer negotiate with the imf as he intends to restore the country's "lost economic self-rule". the credit ratings agency, however, believes budapest should commit to the budget deficit targets and accept international help. it has placed hungary's baa1 local and foreign currency government bond ratings on review for a possible downgrade. "moody's decision to initiate this review was prompted by the increased uncertainty regarding hungary's fiscal outlook and economic prospects," the agency said. "this uncertainty is the result of the recent breakdown of hungary's talks with the imf and eu." standard & poor's said later that it has revised its outlook on hungary to negative from stable. it has a bbb-/a-3 rating on the country, which is already lower than moody's. jose manuel gonzalez-paramo said the tests assume government debt prices fall back to the levels seen at the start of may - at the height of the euro zone crisis - and remain there. "also, that the debt crisis is transmitted to the loan books of the banking system," he added. a total of 61 banks are in the report, compared with 91 undertaking the test, because some of the smaller banks don't trade, or rarely trade, in the cds market. markit concludes: looking at the tables, it is no surprise to see that the majority of the riskiest banks are in the eurozone's periphery – greece, ireland, portugal and spain. these banks have direct exposure to sovereign risk through their holdings of government bonds. they are also exposed to slowing domestic economies brought about by fiscal austerity. "the haircuts are applied to the trading book portfolios only, as no default assumption was considered," according to a confidential document dated july 22 and titled "eu stress test exercise: key messages on methodological issues." the tests will assume a loss of 23.1% on greek debt, 14% of portuguese bonds, 12.3% on spanish debt, and 4.7% on german state debt while uk government bonds will be subject to a 10% haircut, and france 5.9%. the methodology behind the tests has been released ahead of the actual results of the tests at 5pm london time (1600gmt) in an effort to show how tough the tests really were. banks failed the test if they were unable to maintain a tier 1 capital ratio of 6% under each scenario. the scenarios used to test europe's banks were tougher, according to eu regulators and the cebs, than the scenarios used in last year's stress tests in the us. the european scenarios have a likelihood of happening once every two decades while the us ones could occur once every seven years. the european tests assumed that the european economy would shrink by 3% over 2010 and 2011, with stockmarkets, plunging 20% in both years – a compound loss of 36%. credit ratings on securitised products, meanwhile, dropped four notches, although – as reported earlier – losses on sovereign debt holdings applied only to bonds the banks traded, not those that they held to maturity. the euro is still down around fell half a cent against the dollar at $1.2820 after news of the methodology behind the stress tests broke. it seems the real worry is about the scenarios employed for losses on sovereign debt. firstly, there seems to be some anxiety about whether the 23% "haircut" applied to greek debt is really large enough and secondly, the fact the fall in price was only applied to holdings in trading books rather than banking books matters to the market. this is because bonds that banks hold to maturity in their banking books will not the subjected to the test. so any analyst who feels unsatisfied by the haircuts only being applied to trading positions will be able to do their own maths. the bank of portugal has declared that all the portugese banks have passed the tests nothing on the actual cebs web site yet, though.... that was largely expected - the shock will be if another german bank has also failed. meanwhile the full report is now up on the cebs site - with an "executive summary" that covers 55 pages. there'll be some long shifts being pulled in the city tonight..... the testing found that atebank would have a tier 1 capital ratio of 4.36% under the most adverse scenario, leaving it short of €242.6m. there's clearly massive interest in these tests, as the cebs website is wobbling and appeared to crash just then. seems to be working ok now - don't all click at once. i've seen nothing stressful about this test. it's like sending the banks away for a weekend of r&r. the euro has been fluctuating since the tests came out, and is now down again at $1.2831. the results suggest (on the face of it), that britain's banks are in good shape. here are their tier 1 capital ratios under the most adverse scenario: as you can see, the "sovereign stress" part of the exercise simulated a run on government debt, but only considered the impact on a bank's trading operations. so (as mentioned earlier today), the tests explicitely do not consider a european country defaulting on its debts. the objective of the cebs exercise is to undertake an assessment of the strength of eu banks in a consistent manner across institutions and countries. it focused on three different scenarios; a benchmark stress, a more adverse macro-economic stress and a country-wide stress. the benchmark stress identifies movements in parameters such as gdp, unemployment and interest rates and charts a mild deviation away from the pathway which the economy is currently on: it then makes conservative assumptions about the loan losses which will result in this macro-economic scenario. this helps to set a benchmark (mildly stressed scenario) against which the more adverse stress is then applied. the adverse stress assumes a 3 percentage point deviation of gdp for the eu compared to the european commission's forecasts over the two-year time horizon. the method of translating this scenario to loss rates is also conservative. a further 'sovereign stress' was then applied. this tested the resilience of banks to an increase in the yields of government bonds issued by eu member states. it simulates, (i) the associated medium term uptick in household and corporate sector loan losses in the banking book, and (ii) immediate mark to market losses arising from trading book holdings of government bonds of each country. the actual exposures of each bank to central and local government across the eu have been published by each bank. results identify the simulated tier 1 ratios of european banks as well as specific simulations for profit and loss measures. the cebs results are focused on tier 1 ratios for comparability across the eu. as expected the outcomes of the stresses demonstrate the preparedness and resilience of the uk banks under unlikely adverse economic scenarios. the fsa has published the high level results for the uk banks. this resilience is a result of the considerable work that has been undertaken to strengthen uk banks in recent years. the cebs stress test is different but complementary to the fsa's stress testing regime. the long awaited bank stress tests do not seem to have been that stressful after all. this is not surprising. the last thing the authorities would have wanted to do was to set a series of assumptions that would have led to a broad failure across the euro area, as this could only do more damage to the already frail markets. the most controversial area surrounds the treatment of the banks sovereign debt holdings. the haircuts on these bonds only applied to the banks trading books, whereas the majority of these bonds are held on the banking books. in some ways this is consistent with the eu's comments that no eu sovereign will be allowed to fail, although of course if there is a sovereign failure at a later date where the debt is held will make no difference to the actual loss that would be taken. jenkins also argues that it would be a mistake to think that the seven banks which failed today would be allowed to go under "in the real world": they will no doubt either raise capital from the private sector or more likely from their respective governments, as no-one is prepared to undertake another lehmans like experiment. in conclusion, jenkins reckons the stress tests will soon be forgotten: my view is that whilst the stress tests do not take into account the worst case scenario of multiple sovereign failures, we know what the impact of such a disastrous backdrop would be anyway; that is a complete collapse of the western worlds financial system! the eu governments will not allow banks to actually fail in the market, thus it is the sovereign bond market that is key in the short term, because there is not anyone who can bail out the governments (aside from printing money). who they, i hear you mutter. it's hungary's largest bank, of course. the presence of a hungarian lender at the top of the list might be slightly embarrassing for the eu, though, given hungary's particular problems - talks with the international monetary fund and the eu broke down last week, which means a €20bn loan programme has been suspended only this morning, ratings agency moody's warned it might downgrade hungary, pointing to its weak economy as well as its wrangles with the imf. as they point out, atebank of greece has the lowest capital ratios of any of the greek banks being tested. it's 77% owned by the greek state and has long been saddled with problem loans and businesses relating to its role as government lender to the farm sector. hypo real estate of germany has been nationalized since 2009 after requiring more than €102 billion in loans and state guarantees after it and its irish unit depfa plc were heavily hit by the financial crisis. it is already being split into a good bank and bad bank - something the stress tests didn't take into account. the five spanish savings banks, known as cajas, had all suffered from the collapse of spain's property bubble. as promised almost two hours ago, here's the breakdown of how their tier 1 ratios came in (against the target of 6% or higher): city analysts are still digging through the data, so we may have more developments tonight. but if not, thanks for reading.
markets nervous ahead of bank stress test results several of spain's 18 cajas, including some that have been merged recently, have failed the tests that examine how they would cope with worsening economic conditions. el país newspaper reported that some of the unlisted savings banks would need more capital if the economy were to worsen sharply and there were sovereign debt crises in several countries. analysts also believe that greek banks – weakened after the bailout of the country by the international monetary fund – as well as german regional banks, known as landesbanken, are vulnerable. the landesbanken have yet to account for losses incurred in the wake of writedowns on securitised assets such as collateralised debt obligations. but manfred weber, the head of the association of german banks, told local radio this morning that he was confident that german banks would "all in all" perform well in the tests. "the markets need to view the tests as being credible to remove any fears about the european banking system," said raghav subbarao, a currency strategist at barclays capital. "too few banks failing would lead to the tests not being viewed as credible while too many failures will raise further concerns about the state of the banking system. it is going to be hard to pull off the right balance of successful and failed banks." kbw has run its own stress test on banks that are listed across europe. according to this, 10 banks are likely to fall below the 6% tier one capital ratio and would need to raise €9.8bn (£8.2bn) – although the number would be much higher if unlisted institutions were added. the banks that would fail the kbw stress test – assuming that dividends would be cut to help preserve capital – are greek banks national bank of greece, piraeus, efg, marfin and alpha bank, portugal's bpi, germany's deutsche post bank, italy's monte dei paschi di siena, bank of ireland and turkey's bkt. markets are comparing the eu tests to the one conducted by the us in may 2009, when 10 large banks needed to raise $65bn (£43bn) of fresh funds. experts at credit suisse point out the european banking sector has already been bolstered by €200bn since then. there are concerns that the banks are being asked to hold more capital at a time when they have been asked by governments to increase lending to households and businesses.
cack-handed cashback for ocado this remarkable opportunity flows from ocado's cack-handed progress towards flotation. having berated the world for failing to "get it", the company has had to capitulate and admit that the sceptics are too numerous and the price of the shares must be cut beyond the original range. to ensure fair treatment of customers (wise if you're hoping to retain their custom), the friday get-out clause has been inserted to keep the timetable on track. the confusion is entirely of ocado's making. the company was asking for trouble in pricing itself at £1bn-plus, given that it was knocking out shares at half that valuation in a private placing last october. nothing had happened in the past nine months to justify such an increase. what's more, the decision to hire eight banks as advisers backfired. investors detected an arrogant attempt to quash dissent – an impression reinforced by those "they don't get it" remarks. future flotation candidates probably won't repeat the trick of hiring a battalion of bankers, so at least the drama should have one lasting benefit. the view here is that the shares are still not cheap enough. ocado has some smart technology, loyal customers and helpful market trends. but these advantages do not yet add up to profitability and it is too hard to judge when an adequate return on capital will be earned. the investment gamble would look more reasonable if another £300m was knocked off the asking price. in that sense, ocado has actually done well to float at £895m. but, blimey, what a roundabout route to take.
ocado stock market flotation '80% subscribed' with one day to deadline ocado management will tomorrow embark on a final round of back-to-back meetings with potential investors, as the deadline approaches to price shares in the online grocer's stock market flotation. sources close to the company tonight claimed ocado had orders for around 80% of the shares on offer and insisted that the failure to cover the entire equity on offer with only a day to go was not unusual. the offer is expected to be priced tomorrow night at the lower end of the 200p-275p price range, valuing the business at around £800m. conditional trading begins on wednesday, while the company will be fully listed on monday, assuming the directors manage to shift the remaining shares. the company is looking to raise £200m to plough into the business, while existing investors are selling another £200m of equity. the flotation has been beset by critics who have argued the company, yet to record a profit after a decade in business, has been over-valued. last year it lost £14.4m on sales of £402m. clive black at shore capital described the £1.1bn price tag as "stratospheric". finance director andrew bracey said over the weekend that "several thousand" ocado customers had bought shares, around 3% of the eligible base, and denied the take-up had been a disappointment.
wall street: the banks are still boss
brian myerson braced to lose battle for control of d1 oils elsewhere, in further signs that many in the city were shunning the colourful investor, myerson resigned directorships at department store group liberty and sirius, a german real estate group listed on the alternative investment market. however, uncowed by the panel's rebuke, principle capital – where myerson remains executive chairman and major investor – is pressing ahead with an extraordinary general meeting it has called on monday at aim-listed d1, in which it holds a 27.5% stake. principle capital is calling for the current board to be replaced by two of its representatives. myerson believes d1, which has repeatedly sought additional shareholder funds to keep the business alive, has no realistic future as an independent entity. he wants it to be sold off or broken up and its cash pile returned to investors. while the company claims to be discussing a sale, myerson has lost patience and is pressing ahead with the meeting, calling for the board to be sacked. he had previously sought to reverse another of his interests, principle energy, a sugar-cane biofuels group with operations in southern africa, into d1, but his ambitions had been blocked by the board and a large number of shareholders. yesterday the besieged d1 board issued a statement to investors highlighting the takeover panel ruling against myerson, saying: "under the circumstances the board believes it is inappropriate for representatives of principle capital to be appointed to the board or for current members of the board to be removed." principle capital responded: "we view the statement as a cheap shot by a management that is desperate to cling on at any cost. this management has presided over a catastrophic destruction of value at d1." myerson's cold-shoulder punishment relates to an unconnected power struggle last year at principle capital, which at the time was listed on aim. myerson and associates were said to have acted in concert, breaching the panel's takeover code, and to have later given explanations that were "co-ordinated, disingenuous and dishonest". the three-year cold shoulder is supposed to be the city equivalent of an asbo, in effect barring myerson from takeover situations. but principle capital, which was subsequently been taken private, believes the punishment does not extend to it, despite myerson remaining executive chairman and a major investor. regulatory sources would not be drawn on whether principle capital was covered by the cold-shoulder order. myerson has already failed to overturn the panel finding against him on appeal but continues to argue that it is flawed and is considering taking his case to the european courts.
flotations are not being sunk by 'market forces' where does this leave ocado? commendably, the online supermarket surrendered the "market conditions" card when it declared itself so unique that squalls were irrelevant. either there are buyers out there for £400m of stock at 200p-275p or there are not. if it's the latter, ocado should cut the price or come back when it's made a profit. but it's pointless telling city analysts that they don't "get it" – everybody is free to shop elsewhere.
ocado optimistic despite fairfield energy's abandoned flotation fairfield energy, a private-equity backed north sea oil business which specialises in extracting hard-to-access oil from mature fields, had been hoping to raise £330m, but its offer has been spurned by investors. in a one-line statement this morning, fairfield said that, "in the light of market conditions, it has decided against proceeding with its initial public offering of shares and listing on the main market of the london stock exchange at this time." ocado shares are being offered in the price range of 200-275p and private investors must get their applications in by midnight on sunday. institutional investors have until next tuesday, but privately, many have made it clear they have no intention of buying shares, insisting the business is worth nowhere near £1bn. ocado's senior management is currently on a marketing roadshow in the us to persuade american investors to buy shares and its directors are in a blackout period, unable to comment on how the sale process is going. but, last night, a source close to the company insisted fairfield's failure was irrelevant: "it's an oil well in the north sea. it is a depleting asset and a finite resource." he said the grocer's directors were "really bored" with what they believed was negative media coverage and that they remained "pretty confident" they would get their float away. several high-profile city retail analysts have questioned the valuation of the ocado business. earlier this week, clive black, of shore capital, described the price tag as "stratospheric". he added: "it is little short of ludicrous to suggest otherwise" and is urging investors not to buy the shares – and to consider shorting them to make money if the price declines. greg lawless, of collins stewart, believes the shares could be worth just 128p each, while nick bubb, of arden partners, has suggested the ocado bosses consider "a face-saving cut in the price to 160-180p". a source close to the grocery company said the analysts do not "get it" because they are used to assessing the prospects of traditional high street retailers rather than new online business models such as ocado. he added that overseas investors had given the company "an amazing reception".
world stock markets rally on fed move in london the ftse 100 hit its highest level in nearly 29 months, with other european markets also showing strong gains. us stocks also rallied, with the dow jones industrial average jumping 1% when wall street opened. last night the fed announced a second round of qe in which it will inject $600bn (£370bn) – $75bn a month – into the economy through asset purchases by the end of june next year in an attempt to revive the flagging recovery. most analysts had expected the fed to pump in $500bn. "it seems that in the very short term, the market has received qe2 well, but with jobless data round the corner and the health of the recovery now under even closer scrutiny, any real vindication of the policy could take months to emerge," said giles watts, head of equities at city index. jeremy batstone-carr, director of private client research at charles stanley, said the fed was unlikely to be able to launch a third bout of qe next year. "the final months of the qe2 programme are likely to be dominated by talk along the lines of 'will the fed do a qe3?' the newly appointed congress is going to say 'no'," he said. when the reinvestment of maturing debt held by the fed is added in, monthly treasury purchases will be around $110bn, according to a statement issued by the new york fed yesterday. thus the total programme amounts to $850bn- $900bn. the dow jones closed up 26.41 points at 11,215.13 last night, its highest level for two years. today it gained another 124 points in early trading to 11,339. in asia, japan's benchmark nikkei index jumped 198.80 points today, or 2.2%, to 9358.78. hong kong's hang seng climbed 1.7% to 24535.63 while china's shanghai composite index rose 1.9% to 3086.94. oil jumped to a six-month high this morning – us crude for december rose $1.07 to $85.76 a barrel. some economists think that the dollar could fall further and continue to push up prices for commodities priced in dollars.
turquoise trading shutdown may have been sabotage, lse says the financial services authority has been informed of the exchange's suspicions and it is understood that the police have also been called in to investigate a shutdown which began at 8.23am today. the lse's turquoise trading platform – used by hedge funds and high-frequency professional traders – remained shut until 10.30am, prompting a major internal investigation. by tonight, the lse admitted the problem may have been caused deliberately. a spokeswoman said: "preliminary investigations indicate that this human error may have occurred in suspicious circumstances. the lse takes this matter very seriously and a full internal investigation has now begun. the relevant authorities have been informed." the problems at turquoise, known in the city as a "dark pool" which allows participants to trade anonymously with each another, had major repercussions for the lse which had been planning to transfer its entire share trading business, known as the main market, to a new system today. the lse had been under pressure from its customers to delay the introduction of the new computer system to allow further network upgrades even before the latest problems but has now been forced to abandon any updates until next year. "the lse will work in partnership with customers to agree a date as early and practicably as possible in 2011 to reschedule the main market migration," the exchange said. the systems delays will be an embarrassment to the lse's chief executive xavier rolet who bought the sri lankan company millenniumit last year to allow the exchange to overhaul its current technology systems so it can compete with the alternative trading platforms which have been springing up and posing a threat to the lse. the explosion of rival trading platforms has meant that trading in the biggest stocks in london has been drifting away from the lse, which is now accounts of around 60% of trading in shares in ftse 100 companies. by moving to the technology provided by millenniumit, the lse was hoping to be able to offer the fastest trading platform in the world. the transfer of turquoise onto the new technology last month had already caused problems for the exchange, after it suffered glitches on its first day.
stock markets move higher ahead of federal reserve announcement stock markets moved sharply higher today in anticipation that the federal reserve will tomorrow night announce plans to pump more money into the flagging us economy. analysts are expecting fed chairman ben bernanke to push ahead with up to $1tn of quantitative easing (qe) to help spur growth and cut unemployment. other central bank policymakers meeting this week, including the bank of england and the european central bank on thursday, will pay close attention. the chances of further qe from the uk authorities increased today after new figures showed that britain's construction sector grew more slowly than expected in october – suggesting it is unlikely to make as big a contribution to gdp in the final quarter as it did earlier in the year. the latest construction purchasing managers index fell to 51.6 from 53.8 in september – its lowest for eight months – and below forecasts. this still indicates growth, but at a slowing pace. activity in the housing and civil engineering sectors is falling but commercial construction grew strongly. new orders continued to rise, albeit at the slowest rate since february. joshua raymond, market strategist at city index, said: "considering how prominent growth in construction played in the recent better-than-expected first reading of uk growth in the third quarter, this could be seen as a bit of a warning sign towards how gdp could fare in the fourth quarter." the ftse 100 finished 62.81 points higher at 5757.43, close to a new six-month high, with wall street ahead more than 70 points by the time london closed. us shares were also lifted by the expectation of strong republican gains in the us mid-term elections. meanwhile, the expectation of further qe by the fed sent the dollar sharply lower, which in turn boosted commodity prices. oil rose more than 1% to more than $84 a barrel, while copper climbed from $8,300 a tonne to $8,418. this week's strong chinese manufacturing figures are also supporting base metal prices. the australian dollar again passed parity with its us counterpart after the central bank in sydney unexpectedly raised interest rates. ilya spivak, currency analyst at daily fx, said: "should [the fed's qe programme] materialize, the spotlight will fall on the tone of the accompanying policy statement as traders comb it for clues on where the fed plans to move going forward. "on balance, a relatively dovish outcome is likely to boost risk appetite to drive shares, key commodities and the pound against the dollar higher. any signs of reluctance about renewed qe or a smaller amount in asset purchases would likely have the opposite effect."
quantitative easing boost keeps world stock markets buoyant stock markets rallied for a second day this morning and gold hit a new record in the wake of the federal reserve's decision to inject more money into the us economy. copper and oil also strengthened, with both hitting two-year highs as the weak dollar continued to drive the boom in commodities. traders cautioned that the optimism could be short-lived, though. "quite how long the gains can be sustained remains to be seen and the risk of some opportunistic profit-taking ahead of the weekend break shouldn't be overlooked either, but asia seems to have avoided this reversion and for the time being it's simply a case of buying across the board," said ben potter, market strategist at ig markets. the dollar steadied somewhat this morning after touching an 11-month low against a basket of currencies yesterday. us non-farm payrolls data today is expected to show that 60,000 new jobs were created in october across america, although it is unlikely to be enough to bring the near-10% jobless rate down. "with the firing of census workers having ended and private demand for workers rising, payrolls should post their first increase since may, but it won't be enough to get the unemployment rate down quickly," said james knightley at ing. david buik at bgc partners said: "there is no quick solution to this issue. in the 60s, 70s and 80s recessions, which were unemployment driven, it took about eight months to redress the trend. between 2000 and 2004 it took two to three years. this recession is the deepest for 80 years. it has been going 17 months and the end is not in sight. 65,000 jobs may have been created in october, but to see some light at the end of the tunnel we need to see 100,000 to 150,000 jobs being created."
warren buffett sparks succession talk with new hire warren buffett has sparked fresh speculation over his succession by hiring a 39-year-old investment manager to run a significant part of his empire. todd combs, until now the relatively little-known chief executive of castle point capital, is joining the berkshire hathaway conglomerate in a move that puts him among the frontrunners to replace buffett. the "sage of omaha", who celebrated his 80th birthday at the end of august, said combs's appointment followed a long search conducted by himself and his partner charlie munger. analysts said it was unusual for berkshire hathaway to make such a public statement about a new appointment. combs has run castle point for the past five years. the fund focuses on financial stocks, and appears to have weathered the recent crisis relatively well. according to reuters, the company achieved a 14% return on investment in 2006, and 17% in 2007. it lost 5.7% during the turbulence of 2008, but gained 6.2% last year. like buffett, combs writes an annual letter to his shareholders. in july he wrote: "we may begin with the acknowledgment of the pervasive reality of failure – that, for instance, 99.9% of biological species that have ever existed are now extinct... or, a little close to home, that only one original member of the dow jones industrial index continues to be a member today." buffett, whose net worth was estimated this year at $47bn (£30bn), has previously indicated that his work would be divided among several people when he finally left berkshire hathaway. this would see a new chief executive appointed, plus at least one other person handling the investment decisions. buffett has not given any indication that he is planning to retire, and has often appeared reluctant to relinquish the reins at berkshire hathaway. he told shareholders in 2007: "i've reluctantly discarded the notion of my continuing to manage the portfolio after my death – abandoning my hope to give new meaning to the term 'thinking outside the box'."
stock markets rally after g20 accord stock markets rallied this morning after finance ministers from the g20 nations vowed to avert a currency war that could derail the global economic recovery. the ftse 100 in london climbed nearly 50 points to 5790.34 in early trading, a gain of 0.8% while germany's dax was up 40 points at 6646.39 and france's cac rose about 14 points to 3882.71. at their weekend meeting in south korea g20 finance ministers agreed to refrain from devaluing their currencies to gain competitive advantage, although they failed to adopt concrete targets to address trade imbalances. as a result, the trend of selling the dollar continued - the greenback hit a 15-year low against the yen, falling 1% to ¥80.52. the euro shot above the $1.40 mark and the pound also strengthened, rising to $1.5764 from $1.5669. some analysts played down the importance of the g20 and said the likelihood that the us federal reserve will pump more money into the economy next week was more significant. "the g20 was seen as a hurdle by some and now that is over, investors are back to what they are most comfortable with - dollar selling," said anita dudani, g10 currency strategist at rbs.
singapore bourse makes $8.3bn offer for australian stock exchange the combined exchange company would be the world's fifth-largest by market value and rank as the second-largest stock market in asia by number of listed companies, the two exchanges said in a joint statement. but by other measures it would still rank behind tokyo, hong kong and shanghai. the deal aims to give both exchanges a better chance of prospering amid increased competition within asia and as cross-border trading platforms like chi-x europe usurp the dominance of established stock exchanges. the australian securities exchange, known as asx, is set to lose its monopoly on operating a stock market in australia in 2011 and an affiliate of chi-x europe is planning to set up a trading system once the monopoly is abolished. singapore, meanwhile, has long lagged behind hong kong and tokyo as a regional financial centre. "the capital flow we see today is really changing from west to east," said singapore exchange chief executive magnus bocker at a news conference. "this will be the gateway to asian capital markets." the exchange operating company formed from the takeover of asx would have a market value of $12.3bn and be responsible for some 2,700 listed companies. according to september data from the world federation of exchanges, the combined exchange would list companies worth about $1.9tn, the fourth most in asia behind tokyo, hong kong and shanghai. companies traded on the new york stock exchange have a total market capitalisation of $12.3tn, the most in the world. combined trading volume of the singaporean and australian exchanges was worth about $1tn during the first nine months of the year, the sixth most in asia and far behind global leader nyse which has had volume worth $13.8tn in the january-to-september period. asx shares surged more than 20% when trading resumed after the announcement to au$43.49. shares in singapore exchange, also known as sgx, fell 5.3% to 9.04 singapore dollars (£4.41). the companies hope to finalise the deal in the second quarter of 2011, but will need the approval of regulators in each country including australia's foreign investment review board and the australian treasurer, wayne swan. "i don't think we would have announced it if we didn't believe that the approvals would be forthcoming," asx chief executive robert elstone said. the chief of australia's competition regulator said he did not see any potential problems with the proposed deal. "i think it's a matter between the singapore exchange and the australian exchange, and i can't see that raising competition issues for us," graeme samuel, chairman of the australian competition and consumer commission, told australian broadcasting corp radio. "of course we're much more focused on the potential for new competitors to enter into the australian market in terms of stock exchange dealings," he said.
social networks offer free access to the beating pulse of the nation it's taken a while for the penny to drop, but finally the world is waking up to the fact that the phenomenon of social networking might actually tell us useful things about what's happening out there in the world beyond the washington beltway and the westminster village. not only that, but the resulting data might even be useful for predicting what's likely to happen. bollen and his colleagues set out to investigate whether public sentiment, as expressed in large-scale collections of daily twitter posts, can be used to predict the stock market. they used a standard psychological tool to measure mood along six dimensions – calmness, alertness, sureness, vitality, kindness and happiness – and then analysed nearly 10m tweets posted by 2.7 million users between 28 february and 19 december 2008 to extract indicators of mood implicit in tweets. they then looked for evidence of correlation between different kinds of mood and movements in the dow jones industrial average. they concluded that the predictive accuracy of standard stock-market prediction models was significantly improved when certain mood dimensions were included (for example "calm" and "happiness" as one measure of mood), but not others – "general happiness" being one example. once upon a time, this kind of research would have attracted only the derisive snorting of technophobes. why should we take seriously the 140-character vapourings of geeks and media types? what we really need to know is what "ordinary" or "normal" people think. the problem with that kind of technophobic scepticism is that cyberspace is increasingly coming to look like the "real" world. the demographic characteristics of twitter's 200 million users (or of facebook's 500 million) are undoubtedly still a bit skewed compared with those of the population as a whole, but over time that will change: these social networks will increasingly be made up of folks like you and me. in which case, the communications that go on between their members will become the best guide we have to the zeitgeist. if ed miliband wants to have a finger on the pulse of the nation, then the smartest thing he could do would be to hire a few geeks and set them to work.
oil and gold recover after china's rate rise "it seems to me there was a very knee-jerk reaction to the china move across all commodities, and now people are starting to step back and think about what it actually means for chinese growth," said yingxi yu, commodities analyst at barclays capital in singapore. "the answer is probably not much. the actual impact of this rate hike might be limited on the overall growth story in china." yesterday's rally in the dollar proved short-lived. it slipped 0.2% against a basket of major currencies today following yesterday's gain of more than 1.6%. china's key stock index closed 0.07% higher after a volatile session. the shanghai composite index finished the day at 3,003.95 points, after falling nearly 2% earlier on. by contrast, most other asian markets closed lower although they pared earlier losses. japan's nikkei index fell 1.7%, to 9,381.60, its lowest close in two weeks. australia's benchmark index was off 0.7% at 4,623.5 while the hang seng in hong kong slid 0.9% to 23,543.59. analysts said traders were using the interest rate hike as an excuse for profit-taking.
china's interest rate rise sends global markets into turmoil china sent financial markets into turmoil after it increased its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points with effect from tomorrow. the move to raise rates by a quarter percentage point was flagged by the chinese authorities as an internal signal to property developers that rampant house price inflation was intolerable and would be controlled by the beijing government. however, the rise was seen more widely as appeasing us policymakers, who have called for china to increase the value of its currency. the imf warned earlier this month that the world economy was threatened by attempts to artificially depress currency values. china has long been accused by the us administration of maintaining low interest rates to keep the value of its currency low and exports cheap. the pound reacted by falling more than two cents against the dollar in mid-afternoon trading, while the euro was 1% lower on the day at $1.3805 stock markets reacted badly to the news with germany's dax down 41.10 points, or 0.6%, at 6475.53, while the cac-40 in france was 20.99 points, or 0.6%, lower at 3813.51. the ftse-100 index of leading british shares was down at 5,711, a drop of more than 30 points. in the us, the dow jones industrial average was down 146.18 points at 10,997.51. hitendra dave, head of global markets at hsbc india, said internal pressures led to the rise. "china hasn't raised so far and [they] have only been raising the reserve requirements. with all the asset price speculation, they had to raise rates to normalise policy. it is the local factors that led them to take this decision." chris turner, head of foreign exchange at the dutch bank ing, said: "this is part of the moderate tightening cycle that we are seeing from chinese authorities to balance their economy. it is part of the normalisation of interest rates in an economy which is growing at a modestly fast clip. "the market is reacting like there is an increased risk of hard landing with the commodity currencies like the aussie being sold off, but i don't think that is the case," he said. simon derrick, of bank of new york mellon, said the move was fuelling speculation that beijing was involved in backdoor deals with the us administration to nudge its currency upwards. "the move follows a clear need by the chinese authorities to take out some of the heat from the economy. whether this will lead to a broader move on its currency is open to debate. it certainly leads to speculation that the us and china are in some sort of a deal which will perhaps see the us taking a more gradualist approach to quantitative easing. the dollar has already moved higher after this news," he said.
thomson reuters columnist resigns over failure to disclose share ownership the reuters code of conduct forbids journalists from writing about shares they own unless they notify their interest to their manager and from dealing in shares about which they have written recently or intend to write in the near future. david schlesinger, reuters' editor-in-chief, told staff in an internal note today that several other cases had come to light as a result of questioning reuters breakingviews staff where disclosures to readers or managers could or should have been made. "while we have no evidence the journalist was abusing his position for financial gain, we take such breaches extremely seriously and that journalist resigned with immediate effect during our investigation," said schlesinger. he added that collins wrote commentary about companies in which he had a financial interest and made trades shortly afterwards. the investigation is continuing, scheslinger added. reuters said it had added these disclaimers to a total of 53 online columns by the three journalists dating back to february 2009 – the majority written by collins. the disclaimer has been added to all relevant archived columns to say whether the commentators held shares in the companies at the time and if they traded them shortly before or after publication. a total of 36 of the columns were published in 2009, while 17 were published this year. from march 2009, collins commentated on the financial affairs of 15 companies in which he owned shares. it is not clear for how long collins owned shares in the companies mentioned before they were published. the most recent column, published on 29 september and written by collins, is on the bp executive board reshuffle after the gulf oil disaster. shares in the company reached a three-month high in the days following the news. unmack owned shares in lloyds tsb contingent convertible bonds – dubbed "cocos" – from mid-december 2009 up until mid-july this year and during that period he wrote about the company seven times. doyle owned shares in rbs and the bank of ireland when writing about the companies. collins said in his email to dixon, seen by mediaguardian.co.uk, that he dealt shares "infrequently" and that he "saw an opportunity" in bp as the price fell in the aftermath of the gulf oil spill. "i failed to connect my comments for reuters – among millions of words written on bp at the time – with the purchases," collins writes. "i had read reuters' rules about share dealing on joining the company in march 2009, but my recollection was incorrect. i did recall the phrase 'the test is whether the editorial activity might continue to have an impact on the securities.' this is surely the point of the rules." he also admitted that he had sold a "substantial" stake in marks & spencer, obtained from his late father's estate, just five days after commenting on the company's financial results. "as with bp, i view this as a serious, but technical breach of the rules. at no stage do i consider that i have abused my position at reuters," collins said "on discovering the second breach, i felt i had no choice but to offer my resignation, which you accepted on 15 october... i am saddened and embarrassed by my breaches of the rules and hope that you will shortly be able to draw a line under this unfortunate episode." he went on to write a twice-weekly column for the london evening standard. known for his acerbic style, he was named financial journalist of the year at the british press awards in 2002. he joined thomson reuters as a columnist in early 2009, moving to breakingviews when the financial commentary website was bought by the news agency last year. doyle is a former daily telegraph and economist journalist, specialising in investment banking. unmack writes about credit markets, hedge funds and italy for reuters breakingviews and previously worked for bloomberg news and euromoney institutional investor. thomson reuters said it was reviewing procedures and training and had called on all reuters staff to review their involvement in the financial markets to make sure they were complying with the code. it is not currently a standard requirement that thomson reuters columnists and news staff declare any relevant securities holdings at the foot of columns and stories, but this policy is now being reviewed.
standard chartered launches rights issue the bank, which specialises in emerging markets in asia and africa, said it would offer shareholders the right to buy one new share for every eight shares held at a price of 1,280p, a 32% discount to tuesday's closing price in london. fees for the cash call, including those paid to its underwriters jp morgan, goldman sachs and ubs, will amount to just over $100m. the bank also said it had made "very good progress" in the third quarter, with income rising faster than in the first half. trade volumes were almost back to pre-crisis levels, it added. gary jenkins at evolution securities said: "if this becomes a trend and banks move ahead of the timetable set by basel iii is can only be a good thing for bondholders." standard chartered shares dropped 67p to £18.41 in early trading in london, a fall of nearly 3.6%.
fsa clampdown is a leakers' charter the fsa appears to want all media inquiries to be handled by press officers on recorded phone lines. that idea has no hope of preventing "strategic leaks" – those in which the leaker seeks an advantage by putting a few facts in the public domain (for example, an investment banker trying to bounce his wavering client into launching a takeover bid). determined leakers will simply continue to bypass official channels in the knowledge that the fsa's police cannot be everywhere. there will be always be fat fees to be earned by doing deals and the mobile phone cannot be uninvented. but the fsa's diktat may influence behaviour in the day-to-day interactions between the press and the city. the fsa, in effect, has handed companies and their advisers a licence to refuse to talk on any matter that can be deemed remotely price-sensitive. indeed, the process seems to be under way already. what will this achieve? newspapers, whose appetite for scoops will never be dimmed, will be more inclined to publish stories without verifying facts. companies will be less able to use common sense when talking to journalists. and the vacuum will be filled by the most artful leakers, whose whispered words will achieve greater rarity and thus greater power. the fsa should listen to the media's across-the-board condemnation of its proposals. yes, of course we have an interest in encouraging sources to talk. but we also know when the fsa is being so heavy-handed that it risks making matters worse for itself and the market.
firms leaving alternative investment market soar by 25%, study shows   as many as 45 companies left aim between july and september, up from 36 in the second quarter, according to research by trowers & hamlins, a city law firm, and accounting group uhy hacker young. of those, 20 businesses left after being involved in a merger, the study said. non m&a-related delistings remained stable at 25, following 24 in the first and second quarters. "the levelling out of delistings over the last three quarters, once m&a activity is factored out, suggests some companies are in fact being acquired before they are forced to delist because of financial stress," said charles wilson, partner at trowers & hamlins. aim, which lists about 1,200 business with a combined market value of £58bn, is commonly used by entrepreneurs to either expand, or sell their business. the number of new entrants on the market rose to 16 in the third quarter, compared with just two in the second quarter last year, in the midst of the credit crunch. the figures are still far behind the 28 debutants in the second quarter of 2008, when equity investors – ignoring the deep crisis in credit markets – welcomed new issues. "as with the rest of the economy, aim's recovery is proving not to be a sudden bounceback but more of a slow crawl," said chris lowry, a partner at uhy hacker young. "it could be some years before we see companies joining at the rate we saw pre-recession." the number of companies that abandoned the market due to financial stress or insolvency rose slightly to eight in the third quarter, but an improvement from the 27 business that left over the same period last year. "whilst aim's wounds are healing, the recession is clearly leaving scars that will take time to disappear," wilson said.
dairy crest insists it's not for sale after müller reveals stake mark allen, dairy crest's chief executive, said he planned to keep his company independent as he announced that strong sales of cheese had boosted the group's first-half sales in the face of a competitive milk market. speaking after the company behind müllerlight and müller corner disclosed a 3.04% stake in dairy crest, allen said: "müller hasn't made an approach and we are not soliciting approaches from anyone. we've got a very good business and think we are doing a pretty good job by ourselves. we are happy where we are." in a trading update, dairy crest said sales of its cathedral city cheddar brand had shown "strong growth" in the first half. furthermore, its four other biggest brands – country life butter, the clover and st hubert omega 3 spreads and the frijj milkshake – also recorded higher revenues this year than last, the company said. however, allen cautioned that the market for milk is "presently" very competitive as supermarkets engage in a price war. suppliers are bearing the brunt of these price reductions, which are eroding their profit margins. earlier this week, morrison extended dairy crest's milk supply contract until 2015, although neither party would say whether the supermarket was paying it less than under the previous arrangement. at the time, robert wiseman declined to comment on speculation that it had been forced to lower its prices to match those of a competitor in order to keep a contract with tesco, britain's biggest retail chain. the price war was kicked off by asda when it started selling four-pint bottles for £1.25 – and two bottles for £2. this prompted tesco to slash the price of a four-pint container from £1.43 to £1.25 earlier this month. shares in dairy crest, which increased by 7% on wednesday amid hopes that müller might bid for the group, fell by 1.80p, to close at 370.80p today. müller's spokesman didn't respond to a request for comment on any plans the company may have to raise its stake in dairy crest or bid for the company outright.
as cheap money fails to lift us home sales, spain tries austerity   sales of new homes in the us remained on the floor last month, the second lowest level in almost 40 years, sending a signal to federal reserve chairman ben bernake that historically low interest rates had failed to bolster confidence in the housing market. with thousands of unsold or repossessed homes across the us and near 10% unemployment, analysts warned that any plans by the fed to flood the economy with cheap money in another round of quantitative easing would fail to bolster confidence among homebuyers. home sales in the us stayed at 288,000 a year in august, the same level as july and the second lowest since records began in 1963. average prices fell to a level not seen since december 2003, according to figures from the commerce department. "there is no upside momentum in housing, period," said eric green, chief market economist at td securities in new york who correctly forecast the level of sales. "unemployment is so high, consumer confidence is so low, household wealth is eroded and the psychology remains negative." august's durable goods report, suggested the recovery in the manufacturing sector has faded significantly. this was shown by the slowdown in the three-month on three-month growth rate of core orders from 26.2% in may to -4.1%." the only bright spot was a report that showed orders for capital equipment rebounded in august, signalling business investment is holding up better than some economists projected. michael woolfolk, an analyst at bank of new york mellon said the wild swings in us data meant it was difficult to draw conclusions from one month's figures. "the devil continues to be in the detail of this report, as large swings in commercial aircraft and defence orders cause the headline to consistently miss consensus expectations. while the headline number was a modest disappointment, everything else proved positive." stock markets focused on the capital investment figures, which were positive for the third month in the last four, and better than expected figures from across the eurozone. the ftse 100 finished up 51 points at 5598, while the german dax and french cac bourses were up almost 2%. the dow rose 1.75% at 10,848. markets also welcomed the budget cuts and investments in job creation by the spanish government. earlier, the news that german business confidence unexpectedly rose in september, as measured by the ifo institute, was diluted by the fact that most businesses in europe's biggest economy expect tougher conditions in the months ahead as the global economic recovery slows down.
brazil's oil firm petrobras aims for largest share issue in history brazil's state-controlled oil company petrobras is aiming to sell a record-breaking $64bn (£41bn) worth of shares to investors this week – the latest and biggest sign of the developing nation's recent ascent through the ranks of world finance. the offering is set to become the largest issue to date, surpassing the $36bn raised by japanese telecoms company ntt in 1987 and the $24bn raised by the royal bank of scotland in june 2008, when the lender rushed to inflate its corporate buffers as the credit crunch started to deepen. investors are flocking to emerging markets, bonds and natural resources as they escape moribund equity markets in europe and the us. meanwhile, developing economies such as brazil are booming as they sell oil, minerals and metals at record prices. their financial systems have also been less battered by the credit crunch than those in the west, as their more traditional banks avoided the complex sub-prime lending deals that led to the global recession. rio-based petrobras, an offshore oil driller, will use the funds raised to help finance its $224bn investment plan through 2014. as many as 26 investment banks have been appointed to distribute the shares, including goldman sachs, bank of america, merrill lynch, banco santander and citigroup. petrobras, already the fifth largest publicly listed oil and gas firm, aims to make brazil one of the world's biggest oil exporters. it plans to tap oil buried under the sea floor in a region known as the subsalt. deals such as brazilian ethanol and sugar company eth's purchase of rival brenco have lifted brazil to the world's number five rank in mergers and acquisitions this year – up from eighth over the same period last year – according to dealogic. only the us, britain, china and canada have struck more deals than the south american country. brazil is also ranked seven in terms of equity issues – up from 10th last year – and 21st in debt transactions, a jump from its 29th rank in 2009. banks are expanding their operations in sao paulo, brasilia or rio as they try to exploit the country's rich mineral reserves, including iron ore, aluminium or copper. brazil is also rich in soya beans, fruit, coffee, sugar and cotton. the petrobras sale is also expected to attract interest from energy investors, who have rushed into natural resource companies as they perceive them to be safer than the recently volatile credit and equity markets. gold last week reached a record of $1,274 per troy ounce, while exchange traded funds have proliferated in stock markets across europe as investors seek exposure to commodities and energy. in the meantime, the ftse 100 has barely gained 1.8% this year. utility and energy is the second biggest generator of equity issues in europe so far this year, with $8.4bn worth of transactions. only banks have issued more, worth $17bn.
us manufacturing data pushes ftse higher
santa rally runs out of puff, with ftse back below 6000 level most european markets are closed today, as is wall street, so shares are likely to drift gently until the half-day session ends at 12.30pm. there were a couple of corporate announcements – lloyd's insurer chaucer eased 1.4% to 51.25p as it raised its estimate of losses from the new zealand earthquake from $12.5 million to $20m. on the plus side, it said the fourth quarter to date "has otherwise experienced a lower than forecast occurrence of significant large losses". as one sportswear brand, jjb, slithers deeper into the mire, another came under new ownership. admiral, which once provided the shirts to the english football team, has been sold by ekf diagnostics, unchanged at 28.5p, as part of its ongoing disposal programme. ekf said it has agreed the sale of its remaining rights in the brand in a cash deal worth £830,000.
ftse touches 6000 – but its rise says little about british companies does this matter? not really – as long as everybody, including pensioners with savings invested in funds that track the index, understands that the ftse 100 is not meant to represent anything other than the share prices of its constituents. the index is not – and hasn't been for years – a rough approximation of uk plc. indeed, it could almost be argued the ftse 100 is more closely tied to the chinese economy, since china's appetite for raw materials is the biggest driver of the profits of the mining companies. even the miners themselves – with front-row seats to witness the industrialisation of china – have been astonished by the surge in the prices of iron ore and copper this year. that has been great news for anybody with a ftse 100 tracker fund. it is also an excuse to dodge the seasonal parlour game of predicting the level of the ftse 100 a year from now – a mug's game.
ftse hits 6000 as confidence returns london's main stock market index rose above 6000 for the first time since the summer of 2008 tonight amid growing investor confidence about the prospects for the global economy in 2011. however the euphoria was short-lived, with shares dropping back in the settlement period that follows the official close of business at 4.30pm. the ftse eventually ended the day at 5996.07, up more than 12 points on the day and still the highest stock market close of the year. the late drama came at the end of a day when it appeared that the ftse would end tantalisingly short of reaching the milestone, after rising to just above 5999 in morning trading. trading in london was thin as a combination of the bad weather and the imminent christmas holiday kept traders away from their desks. the volume of shares changing hands was just 38% of the 90-day average on the final full day before the break. the market has been on an upward trend for several weeks, putting on more than 400 points in december alone. until today, the ftse had not been above 6000 since june 2008, when markets were awash with short-lived confidence following the takeover of bear stearns by jp morgan in the spring of that year. share prices dropped back later in the summer as fears for the health of the global banking system were rekindled by the problems of the us mortgage lenders – freddie mac and fannie mae – and then plunged in the final three months of 2008 following the month of market chaos that greeted the bankruptcy of lehman brothers. while the city has been buoyed by the upward trend in other stock markets – particularly wall street – london has also benefitted from the high preponderance of mining companies in the ftse 100. strong growth in asia has led to a sharp rise in commodity prices this year and energy shares led today's rise, underpinned by gains in the price of crude which hit a 2010 high of more than $91 a barrel in new york tonight. some consumer stocks enjoyed a reprieve after days of pressure from cold weather in most of britain. with temperatures beginning to rise, retailers hoped for a last-minute dash to the shops. diy group kingfisher rose 2.2% and fashion retailer next gained 1.8%. tour operator tui travel was ahead 2.5% as more travellers were able to leave on christmas breaks. dealers have also become more confident about the prospects for 2011 in recent weeks amid hopes that the crisis in the eurozone will not spread from the small peripheral countries to spain. "expectations have improved a lot because we haven't had a double dip [recession], earnings are strong and the consensus for the economy next year will be strong," said mark bon, fund manager at canada life in london. however, with the sovereign debt crisis in the background bon didn't think people were "all-out bullish", adding that the other concern was whether china would be successful in cooling its property market. jimmy yates, head of equities at cmc markets, said: "where there is a will there is a way and it seems the market's will is for the ftse above the 6000 level by the end on 2010." fresh signs of a pick-up in growth emerged from the us. durable goods orders rose and real consumption increased by 0.3% in november following a 0.5% increase in october.
sleigh bells ring for price of copper as mystery trader fills christmas stocking a mystery trader has accumulated up to 90% of the copper on the london metal exchange (lme) amid a dramatic rise in the price of the metal, driven by demand from china and other emerging economies. copper prices have stormed to record levels this week and today closed at $9,403 (£6,063) a tonne as speculation swirled about the identity of the trading house sitting on the large position at the lme which has been steadily rising since the middle of november. the position is worth around $3bn and could include existing holdings as well as derivatives to buy the metal in the future. other commodity prices also rose today. oil pushed through the $90 a barrel level for only the third time in two years, after the banking crisis raised fears of a slow down in the world economy and a cut in demand for oil and other commodities. data in the us fuelled the surge after showing that crude oil supply fell more than expected last week. precious metals have also hit fresh highs recently. silver has reached its highest levels 30 years while palladium has traded at prices last seen in 2001. the creation of such a dominant position in copper has mesmerised traders and helped fuel anxiety about the supply of copper, which is in turn driving the price higher. as it is, mines are finding it difficult to keep up with the demand for a metal that, according to analysts at barclays capital, is at its highest ever levels. copper is used for wires and cables and is enjoying high levels of demand as emerging economics install more electricity and telecommunications, but also because renewable energy sources require the use of copper. but trading today was also driven by new worries about supply caused by shipping problems at the world's largest copper mine in chile – collahuasi. the lme first began to report that a so-called dominant position in copper had been accumulated on 17 november, but in recent days the size of this position has increased from "50% to 80%" to "80% to 90%". while us investment bank jp morgan has been linked to the position, market sources insisted that this was not the case. a festive-themed note from analysts at barclays capital predicted that rising demand for commodities could keep prices buoyant next year. "europe might be facing arctic-type temperatures, but the base metals markets are heating up. copper is the metal that appears to be everyone's favourite stocking filler, with prices rising to a new record high, punching well above $9,000 per tonne. the sleigh bells are ringing for the other metals too, driven by improving demand, the ongoing economic recovery and tightening market balances," barclays capital said. "[the year] has witnessed a number of surprises, but the real christmas cracker has been the strength of the recovery in demand, which will be a record high for all the base metals except tin. emerging market demand has been the single biggest swing factor, coming in well above market forecasts." china consumes 35% to 40% of the world's annual copper output, although there is some expectation in the markets that the metal could be swapped for aluminium in some products, which would help to ease pressure on demand. the demand for commodities is also being driven by the creation of so-called exchange traded funds, which allow investors to bet on the price of metals such as copper. the lme said it was not unknown for one trader to hold large positions. diarmuid o'hegarty, head of regulation and compliance, said: "dominant long positions are not unusual and the lme has proven processes for dealing with these positions." to stop buyers cornering the market and manipulating the price, the rule is that once a trader has more than 50% they are obliged to lend the metal back to the market, if the demand arises, at predetermined prices set by the lme. "as a market of last resort, we do not stop people from buying metal; we restrict their behaviour depending on how much they buy. in times of short supply the lme stocks are often used as a source of material and in times of excess supply lme warehouses are used to store the metal," o'hegarty said.
one small retailer's profit warning does not a bleak christmas make the analysts' working theory is this: big one-stop retailers, like the supermarkets and large department stores, win and the specialist stores lose. that sounds like a reasonable guess: why trawl around the high street in the snow when you can get more christmas presents under one roof?
pension funds cut deficits in rising stock markets occupational pension funds enter 2011 in a better state than when they started the year, but the largest 200 final salary schemes remain more than £50bn in deficit, according to a study by consultants aon hewitt. pension funds have benefited from a stock market that rose 9% in 2010. commercial property also recovered during the year while bond funds remained broadly stable. aon hewitt said the deficit of the 200 largest privately sponsored final salary schemes stood at £52bn today, a 40% improvement on the £87bn last new year's eve. funds will be wary of relying on markets to rise strongly in 2011 to wipe out the remaining deficit, said marcus hurd, one of the company's pension analysts. some schemes would gamble on shares gaining ground, while others will seek to buy insurance to cap their liabilities. "it is possible 2011 will be a good year for the stock market and other assets as the world economy recovers. but it remains a risk and many trustees will be looking to lock in gains made in 2010." some employers have bought derivatives to hedge market movements. others have paid insurers to take pension liabilities off their books. bt, british airways, royal mail and the bailed-out lloyds banking group and royal bank of scotland have some of the largest deficits in corporate britain. bt and british airways have deficits three times larger than their equity market value. most pension funds continue to invest between 50% and 60% of their assets in stock markets, with the remainder in high grade corporate bonds, government bonds, property and cash. only a minority of schemes are open to new employees, with most employers preferring to enrol staff in cheaper personal-pension style arrangements that depend solely on stock market gains. two years ago the largest 200 schemes registered a small surplus after bond yields, which provide the basis for pension asset accounting, made strong gains. hurd said the accounting rules presented a distorted picture of pension fund assets and liabilities, which were more accurately reflected by the more recent figures. about 2.5 million private sector workers remain in final salary schemes with another 5 million public sector workers. almost half of private schemes have stopped workers accruing new pension rights, in effect freezing their benefits. only 800,000 workers are employed at companies that continue to enrol staff in some form of guaranteed pension scheme. the majority of workers pay into stock market related schemes. it was estimated this year that more than 1 million people stopped paying into a pension scheme during 2009. pension experts believe the trend has continued throughout 2010, especially as workers seek to restrict spending and cut costs. while the stock market briefly broke through 6000 before christmas, pension savers complain that the value of the main market remains below its peak in 1999 of just under 7000. many savers have switched to bond funds in recent years in search of higher yields. yields have declined this year, prompting a return of savers to global stock markets. reports in the us of a huge exodus from bond funds back to stock market investments have encouraged speculation that equities will continue to make gains over the next year.
chinese stock market posts 15% fall for 2010 a mixed trading year in asia has ended with the chinese stock market posting an annual decline of nearly 15%. however, some analysts believe that chinese shares have fallen too far. zhang fan, strategist at tebon securities in shanghai, told reuters there are signs of rising optimism, with the shanghai composite rising 1.8% in today's trading session:
london stock exchange flotations soar but overall cash-raising declines the number of new flotations on the london stock market soared by more than 500% during 2010 but there was a huge decline in overall cash-raising amid gloom over a sluggish western economy. more than £10bn was raised through initial public offerings (ipos), though many of the 89 companies involved were based overseas and the numbers were modest compared with those seen before the banking crisis. it was also a fraction of the global figure which is expected to reach £190bn thanks to a huge surge in activity around china and the rest of asia. the overall amount raised in london in the past 12 months was £23.8bn, down from £77.4bn during 2009 and £66.7bn for the year before that. "whilst last year our markets supported a significant amount of fundraising through further issues, 2010 injected some very positive signs of life into the new issues market, including a number of major wins for london," she added. the lse was particularly pleased that it had attracted high profile listings from india, russia, and the middle east but there was little comment on the slump in overall cash raising or the fact that some stock-listings had struggled badly. overall £9bn was raised through 46 ipos on the main london market while almost £1bn was obtained through similar moves on the junior aim market. the £9bn raised on the main market compared with more than £20bn in 2007 and in 2006 but the overall money-raising figure of £23.8bn this year compared with £29bn for 2007 and £36bn the year before that. officials from the london stock exchange were loth to comment on the reduction in the amount of total cash-raising undertaken during 2010 except to blame "ongoing market conditions." the general trading position for stocks and shares over the last 12 months has been relatively good with the ftse-100 index of top shares on track for a rise of 11% year on year. the same index hit 6,000 points last week – its highest level since june 2008. but companies have been wary of engaging in secondary cash raising while growth prospects in many sectors remain uncertain. the aim market showed smaller firms more positive with the total amount raised in 2010 up 12% on 2009. the amount of activity in london is muted when compared with booming financial centres such as hong kong and shanghai. agricultural bank of china raised $22bn (£14bn) over there recently – the biggest float in history. accountant ernst & young, has predicted europe and the us will continue to trail asia when it comes to wider economic performance and ipo activity in 2011. but the lse remains optimistic. pierce said: "we believe that these new [2010] floats are just the beginning of a growing, healthy, long term pipeline of issuers, looking to join our markets. as market conditions continue to improve, we are confident many more companies will look to benefit from the unrivalled liquidity and international profile that a listing in london can provide."
bombay stock exchange unveils its new sharia law share index   india's investment community has offered a solution to a quandary faced by millions of muslims by launching a share index that complies with sharia law. the bombay stock exchange has unveiled a new index of companies that meet the islamic legal code, allowing the country's 140 million muslims to play the stock market. sharia law prohibits muslims from holding an investment portfolio whose stock picks include companies that sell alcohol or tobacco, or businesses that charge interest. the exchange has teamed up with a mumbai-based islamic finance company, tasis, to create the bse tasis sharia 50 index, consisting of the 50 largest and sharia-observant companies in the bse 500 including reliance industries – a gas, oil and food conglomerate. madhu kannan, chief executive, of the bombay stock exchange, said the move would give muslims an enhanced role in india's rapidly expanding economy, while drawing in funds from international investors bound by sharia law. "the bse tasis sharia 50 index will give islamic and other socially responsible investors another means to access the indian market and will help attract pools of capital to india from the gulf, europe, and southeast asia," said kannan. britain is one of the leading players in the islamic finance market due to a well-regarded tax and legal regime that has allowed numerous islamic bond issues in london. this year international innovative technologies, a gateshead-based engineering company, became the first british company to raise funds through the issue of an islamic bond, or sukuk. however, islamic bank accounts and other retail financial products have fared less well in britain, with the founder of the islamic bank of britain describing the market as a "huge flop".
fasten your seatbelts – 2011 will be a rollercoaster year for ftse 100 leading shares are poised for another bumper year in 2011 and could even test their record highs, according to city analysts, despite the continuing global financial problems and government austerity measures. but that may not be the end of the story. many in the city believe the index could see a gain of 7% or so in 2011 and may even reach 7000, beating the all-time high of 6930 reached on 30 december 1999, the height of dotcom mania just before the bubble burst. part of the impetus for further rises is the growing sense that the us economy is on the mend, especially now president obama has extended his predecessor's tax cuts and added fresh economic stimulus. lenhoff has a target of 6450 for the ftse 100 by the end of 2011. but he said: "that might be a little cautious. there is a chance it could hit a new record." but there are risks too, notably the continuing financial problems of the eurozone and the fear that further bailouts will be necessary. china, which has accounted for much of the recent growth in global demand, could prove a drag instead next year, as the authorities make increasingly serious moves to cool down their economy before it overheats. however, the rising value of the market is unlikely to follow a straightforward upward path, said analysts. there is widespread consensus that volatility will dominate the trading environment. graham secker at morgan stanley warned investors to prepare for a rough ride. he forecasts that the ftse 100 will end the year at 6400 but reckons it could fall as low as 3900 or jump to a new record of 7000. he said: "through the next year we think it likely the stock market will flirt with at least two, if not three, of these scenarios at one time or another." but overall secker is optimistic the market will end higher: "reasonable global gdp growth should drive 15% profit growth in an asset class that offers reasonable value, particularly against alternatives. under our bull case [7000], we look for the global economy to surprise on the upside as the authorities leave fiscal policy unchanged while global real interest rates remain highly accommodative or negative." among the other year-end ftse 100 predictions, jeremy batstone-carr of stockbroker charles stanley gives a 50% chance to the index finishing at 6150, and a 25% chance of it finishing at 6700 or higher. nick nelson at ubs is more optimistic, setting 6700 as his target, saying the uk has the advantage over other european markets in terms of currency and interest rate flexibility, a credible policy on its austerity measures and no immediate election to cause political instability, despite the current strains among coalition members. jonathan jackson, head of equities at charles stanley rival killik & co, has opted for a more cautious figure of 6600 for the year end. he said: "although concerns remain over eurozone sovereign debt issues and the strength of economic recovery in the west, we believe these will be outweighed by positive factors such as the continued earnings recovery, the potential asset allocation switch from bonds into equities, and the attractive dividend yield." howard wheeldon, senior strategist at bgc partners, opted for a middle-range forecast of 6300. it is worth noting that last year all the strategists underestimated the strength of the recovery. lenhoff went for a 2010 year-end ftse 100 figure of 5500, batstone-carr had 4700, killik & co 5850, secker 5000 and wheeldon 5700. so it would seem another positive year is in prospect for the uk's leading index but also another rollercoaster ride.
ftse on course for best december since 1987 barring any upsets in the final few days next week, the ftse is on course for its best december since 1987, when it rose 8.5%. not everyone is convinced the gains are built on firm foundations, however. "it's one of the thinnest volume rallies, and there's a feeling it's built on hot air," giles watts, head of equities at city index, told reuters. elsewhere in the sector dixons retail gained almost 2%, at 23.11p, and ocado rose 1% to 171p. supergroup – dubbed "superdroop" by some following its recent fall from grace – clawed back 20p of its recent losses at one stage but drooped again towards the close, ending 3p down at 1233p.
a christmas rally? plenty. the woes of the eurozone have been relegated to down-page status since the european central bank starting buying bonds aggressively a fortnight ago, but that doesn't mean the problems have gone away. there are several factors at work. one is anxiety about what the grand two-day eu summit, which starts on thursday, will bring. the big question is whether the current bailout fund will be beefed up to a size capable of intimidating markets. then there is a tricky issue of how to design a permanent crisis fund to work after 2013 and how to force investors to take "haircuts" or losses; these can be scary subjects for markets, as we saw in ireland. the other factor gnawing away is the realisation that the return of inflation – if that's what we are witnessing – adds yet another layer of complexity. it's not just the hit to growth if borrowing costs rise. quantitative easing, which markets have come to regard as the central bankers' panic button, even in the eurozone, becomes harder to activate. shares can keep rising in such a climate, but, after such a strong december rally, it's probably not the way to bet if those spanish bond yields keep climbing. the end of the year could yet be nervy.
betfair: goldman sach's duffest flotation of the year some high-rolling poker players have disappeared; horse-racing is declining in popularity; and gamblers are risking less when budgets are tight. these are minor complaints: it's just that there is a lot of them. at 990p, betfair is obviously a more enticing prospect. today's trading numbers were a setback but not a disaster: the core british business is well established and should still churn out decent sums of cash. but there is little clarity on the adventures into new territories – the us and financial markets – that were the other factor behind the princely float valuation. california will allow exchange wagering on horse-racing from may 2012. fine, but let's see how the conservative, and powerful, american horse-racing lobby reacts. it is also far too early to say how the lmax financial exchange will prosper – it's only been open for a few months. until the picture becomes less fuzzy, putting a fair value on betfair is an exercise in educated guesswork. there is room for honest disagreement. from the point of view of goldman and morgan stanley, the sponsors to the float, the concern will be the behaviour of the insiders, betfair's long-standing investors who still dominate the register. the first lock-up agreements come off next autumn. if the shares still stand well below £13 then, it would be embarrassing for the investment banks if there's a rush to sell.
rights issues reform requires pressure on chief executives
inquiry calls for full disclosure rights issue fees   companies which tap investors for cash should be required to provide a break-down of fees paid to investment banking advisors to stop them being overcharged, according to an inquiry into rights issues published today. the inquiry, led by a group of city investors, found that companies which conducted rights issues were charged fees that were 10 times more than they paid their own directors. the cost is ultimately borne by shareholders who are ordinary savers and investors in pension funds and who only receive an aggregate figure of fees paid. the inquiry could find no "plausible justification" for the rise in fees that has taken place since the monopolies and mergers commission conducted an investigation into the issue 13 years ago, aside from the period during the banking crisis. underwriting fees were 2% before the mmc, rose to 2.9% afterwards and hit an average of 3.4% in the 2007-2009 financial crisis. the office of fair trading launched an inquiry in june and is due to publish its findings next month. a record £49.4bn was raised by rights issues in 2009, smashing the pervious record in 2008 of £27bn when banks were forced to tap shareholders for cash. douglas ferrans, chairman of the rights issue fees inquiry (rifi), said: "companies are paying too much to ensure the deal is a success. on average companies who have had rights issues have paid ten times more in fees than that which was paid to their executive team in total reward. whilst remuneration rightly comes under the spotlight, very little light is shone on these larger numbers." leading city investors do not want to radically overhaul rights issues which allow existing shareholders the "right" to buy new shares being issued to prevent their influence being diluted by new investors arriving on the register. but ferrans noted: "companies and their shareholders are not getting a fair deal and that needs to change." the inquiry calls for fees paid for underwriting and advisory services to be disclosed to the stock market and in the next annual report. companies should also consider whether they might only need to underwrite part of their issue to reduce the cost. one of the ways to do this is with greater consultation. this presents problems of putting insiders in receipt of information that could move a share price so the inquiry suggests that institutional shareholders should consider appointing those who can be taken "off market" to discuss such matters with companies. the inquiry was led by city investor groups including the investment management association, the association of british insurers (abi) and the national association of pension funds (napf). the inquiry was commissioned by the institutional investor council.
uk firms announce £2.4bn in takeover deals dealmaking came back with a vengeance today as british companies announced takeover deals involving everything from oil pipes to maximuscle protein drinks worth a total of £2.4bn. in a sign that companies are starting to spend the mountains of cash they have amassed after two years of hoarding and risk aversion, corporations such as pharmaceutical company glaxosmithkline, the cleaning products firm reckitt benckiser and yule catto, the chemicals maker, announced acquisition deals. the american conglomerate general electric also succeeded in its third attempt to buy the british oil services firm wellstream for £800m, further adding to the buoyant mood. the spate of deals pushed the ftse 100 index up by 47 points, to close just short of a year high at 5860, promising a strong finale to 12 months that have gone down as the worst for mergers and acquisitions (m&a) in more than a decade. rhys phillip, ernst & young's head of m&a for the uk and ireland, said: "there is a lot more sentiment in the market for deals now and a lot more conversations taking place because companies have all this money flushing around and are looking for a reason to spend it." among the main deals of the day, glaxo has agreed to buy maxinutrition, europe's biggest sports nutrition company, from darwin private equity for £162m. reckitt benckiser snapped up paras pharmaceuticals, an indian ointments and personal care company, for $726m (£458m), while yule catto acquired polymerlatex, europe's third-largest latex maker, for €433m (£366m). however, phillip, who has seen "steady growth" in deal activity in the past six months, which he expects to continue, warned that the increase is from a low base and that the recovery has some way to go. "i am not cracking open the champagne just yet. there is a lot more talk, but not quite so much action," he said, in the week after burberry, j sainsbury, smith & nephew, kesa electricals and g4s were all targets of takeover rumours that have yet to materialise. some 466 of europe's biggest companies – the stoxx europe 600 index, excluding its financial constituents – are sitting on $691bn of cash, according to bloomberg. this represents a 16% increase on the amount they had at the end of 2007 as the financial crisis gained momentum and companies opted to hoard cash by cutting costs, dividends and deal activity. at the same time, it is relatively easy for companies to raise more cash since investor demand for bonds is strong, while the low base rate ensures interest is low. the uk oil services groups wellstream and psn also announced that they were being sold, as energy services companies grow increasingly confident about the future after a two-year slump and as the price of oil edges ever closer to $90 a barrel. general electric has agreed to pay £800m for wellstream, the world's biggest maker of flexible pipes used by oil companies in deep water, after its two previous lower offers were rejected. wood group, a maker of chokes, valves, pumps and wellhead systems used by companies such as bp and royal dutch shell, said it had agreed to acquire psn, a scottish rival, for $955m. the combined "brownfield" companies – which specialise in squeezing oil out of ageing oil and gas fields – will be called wood group psn. these deals indicate a confidence that the demand for oil – and therefore its price – will remain high for the foreseeable future because both companies are concerned with reaching some of the world's less accessible reserves, whether under deep sea or in heavily used wells. the value of mergers and acquisitions completed in the uk this year is on course to be the lowest since 1997, according to the data provider thomson reuters. some $212.5bn worth of deals involving at least one british company had been finalised today, down from $246.1bn in 2009 and less than a quarter of the record $961bn in 2000. the $21.4bn takeover of confectioner cadbury by kraft, the us food company, in april was the biggest uk deal completed this year. len mccluskey, general secretary of the unite trade union, reiterated his call for the scrutiny of any takeover of a uk company by a foreign business, after it emerged this month that kraft plans to move parts of cadbury to switzerland for tax purposes less than a year after its controversial acquisition of the chocolate maker. "when companies like kraft start relocating cadbury's financial affairs to switzerland, so that they can avoid paying the tax due for the manufacturing and selling in this country, it is difficult to retain any belief that uk plc benefits at all from how the industrial world operates," mccluskey said.
stock markets braced for chinese interest rate rise   china is widely expected to raise its interest rates in the wake of stronger than expected inflation figures released over the weekend. the prospects of such a move could unsettle stock markets, with commodity companies in particular likely to suffer if the country acts to dampen down demand. inflation jumped from 4.4% in october to a 28-month high of 5.1% in november, compared to forecasts of 4.7%. the increase was driven by an 11.7% jump in food prices. before the figures were released, china had already acted to tighten monetary policy by increasing the reserve requirements for its banks. this was prompted by stronger than expected trade data released on friday, which showed chinese exports rising by 34.9% in november, while imports climbed by 37.7%. but the strong inflation numbers suggested more action was required, said economists. others suggested the november figure could represent a peak. state radio today reported comments from an annual economic conference confirming a shift from a "loose" monetary policy stance to a "prudent" one, which seemingly paves the way for a rate rise. "the priority is to actively and properly handle the relations between maintaining steady and relatively fast economic growth, economic restructuring and managing inflation expectations," said a statement from the conference. "strategic economic restructuring will be accelerated and stabilising price levels will be given a more prominent position." analysts said the high level of chinese inflation could lead to higher prices in the uk for goods produced in the country.
regional airline flybe raised £66m from stock market flotation flybe crowned a turbulent decade that saw it survive the aftermath of 9/11 to become one of europe's fastest growing regional airlines by raising £66m in a stockmarket flotation. the exeter-based airline was known as british european when it was heading for serious difficulties in 2002 but it gained a new lease of life by rebranding as flybe and embracing a low-cost business model under chief executive jim french. the airline operates from smaller airports such as london city, southampton and norwich to nearly 80 destinations in continental europe and has aggressive expansion plans, having signed a deal this year with brazil's embraer to add up to 140 aircraft to its 68-strong fleet. flybe said half the proceeds from the flotation would be used to fund aircraft deals, with the rest bolstering its cash balance that will not be deployed on a brace of acquisitions - contrary to recent speculation. it is understood that the airline is looking to expand via codeshare deals, which allow it to sell tickets on services operated by other airlines, following deals with air france and finnair. french said he was "very pleased" that the share offer was two-times oversubscribed, valuing the business at £215m after it launched at 295p a share. after a day of trading on the grey market, before formal trading begins on wednesday, the shares closed up 16% at 341.25p. "we have long seen a listing as an essential step in the growth and development of the business," said french. british airways was the only leading shareholder not to dilute its stake in the offering as it acquired more shares to keep its holding at 15%. ba became an investor after flybe took over its regional business, ba connect, in 2007.
asian boom fuels record year for floats the amount raised in stockmarket flotations around the world this year is expected to break the 2007 record of $300bn (£190bn), according to research from accountants ernst & young. asian companies are behind a surge in the number of floats. britain and europe have done better than last year, but account for only a tiny proportion of new activity because of fears about the future of the euro and the sovereign debt crisis. in the uk, the change of government, uncertainty over budget cuts and fears of a double dip recession have put off scores of companies from listing on the london stock exchange. e&y says that in the first 11 months of this year, 1,199 companies have raised $255bn ($94.6bn, 2009) with chinese firms accounting for more than 45% of the value. david wilkinson, uk ipo leader at e&y said: "the ipo market reflects the twin-track global economy with europe and the us trailing asia, where gdp is racing ahead. i think next year will be a similar story, with perhaps more action from latin america, especially brazil. south america has recovered less quickly from the recession than china and india, but is now rebounding strongly." wilkinson said: "i am afraid it hasn't been a great year for the uk; shares in only four or five newly floated uk companies are today trading above the price at which they sold their shares to the public, so it's quite a sorry affair. we expected a much brighter picture back in january." he was reluctant to make predictions for the british ipo market in 2011, beyond saying there is "a pipeline of companies waiting to list their shares, but if investors demand knockdown prices, firms may conclude now is not the time to sell." e&y says in the emerging markets, there is still everything to play for with a large number of firms earmarked for privatisation in 2011 and 2012, particularly financial institutions, commodities groups and industrial firms.
ftse 100 index has gained 1,000 points since the start of july in the land of housing and building materials, there are also more cheerful noises after the catastrophes of the past two years. wolseley sees signs of growth in some parts of the us. in the uk, housebuilder bellway said it expects first-half profits to rise 20%, a figure that provoked a bounce in share prices across the sector.
fsa bans stockbroker over share-ramping   a seven year investigation by the financial services authority into a share ramping scheme is drawing to a close after graham betton, one of the brokers involved, was today banned from the city after a 40 year career. eagle, who was handed a record fine of £2.8m in may for his part, had wanted to use fei as an investment vehicle and bought 85% of the company but wanted to sell all but 10% of the stock. to create a market in the shares, he bought the stockbroker sp bell which sold fei stock to its clients, generating demand and pushing its price up. betton instructed sp bell staff to sell fei shares to clients. he is the last individual in the affair to be punished. sp bell has received a public censure and would have been fined had it not gone into liquidation. the tribunal said betton had personally rolled over 75 trades from client to client – consisting of at least 340m fei shares – allowing them to defer payment for the shares indefinitely. trading in fei shares was suspended in july 2004, leaving more than £9m of unsettled trades which neither sp bell nor its clients could meet. sp bell ceased trading and went into administration. margaret cole, fsa managing director of enforcement and financial crime, said: "this marks the final chapter of a scheme which saw the share price of fundamental-e investments deliberately manipulated to the detriment of ordinary investors." betton, who earned a salary of £75,000 and was not on commission told the tribunal that he did not know that the purpose of the scheme was to raise fei's share price artificially and said he had only made a profit of £4,500. in his witness statement he has admitted that his "response to the unfolding situation was tempered by the fear of being sacked by mr eagle". "betton was an experienced director of an fsa authorised firm. he knew that the trading for his clients was artificial and he worked closely with winterflood and its traders to artificially raise the price of the stock. this betrayed his duty to his clients and as the tribunal has agreed was damaging to market confidence," cole said.
commodities trader glencore poised for £30bn flotation glencore, the world's biggest commodities trader, plans a flotation next year, although the company has yet to pick london for the listing, the guardian has learned. glencore, which could be valued at as much as £30bn, is eyeing stock markets in asia as an alternative to the london stock exchange, as investors favour the booming economies of china and india over moribund western markets. the company declined to comment but city chatter suggests a float may be on the cards. a partial flotation of the business, owned by more than 400 partners, would be aimed at raising cash for acquisitions. the switzerland-based trader owns one third of uk miner xstrata, raising speculation that a full bid for the business could be considered. glencore's revenues have boomed over the past year as commodities such as gold or copper have rocketed, fuelled by strong demand from emerging markets. investors have also flocked to metals such as gold, avoiding the volatile equity and credit markets in europe and the us. the company has issued up to $2.2bn (£1.4bn) in convertible bonds to investors in the us, singapore and china. revenues soared to $70bn in the first half, from $45bn last year, according to the company's latest accounts. net profit rose to $1.5bn, from $1.0bn in 2009. the company was able to "take advantage of the gradual recovery in the global economy and generally higher average commodity prices," it said this summer. founded in 1974 by us trader marc rich, glencore also owns and develops mining projects around the world, including oil exploration and development blocks in west africa and a gold mining operation in kazakhstan. in 1983, former new york city mayor rudolph giuliani, then a us prosecutor, indicted rich for tax evasion who sought refuge in switzerland. rich was pardoned by president bill clinton in 2001. initial public offerings (ipos) and mergers and acquisitions are returning to the markets after two years of drought, caused by the global credit crunch. the last quarter of this year is on track to become the highest quarter on record for global public flotations (ipos), according to dealogic. at present, global ipo volumes stand at $99bn, via 289 deals, dealogic said. asia pacific accounts for 60% of ipos in the fourth quarter, including offerings from aia group or petronas chemicals. morgan stanley led the november global ipo manager ranking, with deals worth $5.4bn, followed by goldman sachs, which led 10 transactions worth $4.2bn, dealogic reports.
promethean world sees shares slump after profits warning education technology firm promethean world has cemented its reputation as the worst flotation of 2010 after hitting its shareholders with a profits warning. promethean world, which makes interactive whiteboards and handheld learner-response systems for students, admitted today that sales have fallen sharply in recent weeks in the face of austerity cutbacks in america and across europe. with sales in the current quarter now lower than a year ago, the company is on track to miss its revenue targets for this year. blackburn-based promethean world blamed "a deepening of budgetary uncertainties and constraints" since the end of october, adding that it is hopeful that potential orders have simply been delayed rather than cancelled. but shares in the company crashed by a third, to 52p. they have now lost nearly three-quarters of their value since the company was floated at 200p per share in march. analysts were scathing about the profits warning. numis securities slashed its forecast for 2011 by 50%, pointing out that the company had hoped that europe would be a growth market. "given the issues over scale and rapidity of downgrade, substantial slowdown in the largest market, lack of momentum in the 'new' markets of europe, we expect investors to be wary and believe it will be a herculean task for the company to rebuild credibility," numis said. despite the recent slowdown, promethean world is still on track to increase revenues by 20% this year. numis, however, estimates sales are currently declining at "significant double-digit rates". the slump in the company's value, from £400m in march to just £105m today, will have hurt founder tony cann in the pocket as he still has a 40% stake in the business. apax partners, the private equity firm, sold its stake during the flotation, which was handled by goldman sachs, jp morgan cazenove and gleacher shacklock. these three banks received most of the £8.5m fees paid during the float.
shares fall on fears over north korean attack and irish bailout traders said the artillery shelling off the island of yeonpyeong earlier today, in which two soldiers were killed, had heightened tensions. the south korean won fell heavily, dropping by 3.5% against the dollar, and the cost of insuring south korea's government debt jumped by a fifth. "it is bad news all round this morning... as concerns over the irish economy and the situation between north and south korea continue to mount,"said yusuf heusen, senior sales trader at ig index. "the uncertainty surrounding the stability of the irish government has raised fears that the eu bailout could be delayed for some time to come." the london stock market saw a burst of selling, with the ftse 100 index dropping 66 points, or 1.2%, to 5613. mining stocks led the fallers, along with lloyds banking group – one of the uk banks most exposed to ireland's financial sector – which dropped nearly 3% to 62p at one stage. spread-betters had expected european stock markets to show small losses this morning, before the exchange of fire between north and south korea. gary jenkins, head of fixed income research at evolution securities, warned that many investors are now expecting the weaker members of the eurozone to restructure their debt. "this latest bout of the crisis gained momentum with the many comments regarding bond holders 'sharing the pain'. when it was clear that these statements were doing damage to the market and undermining confidence various g20 finance ministers published a statement to try and reassure the market that existing debt would not be affected. however it is clear from bond prices that the market does not consider this to be a realistic assessment of the situation. there is just too much outstanding debt," jenkins said. but spain's five-year cds rose by 4.5 basis points to 286.5bp, with the portugese cds contract rising 10.5bp to 468bp. the difference between the interest rate on spanish 10-year government debt and its german equivalent also rose today to its highest level since the euro was created - 233 basis points. this followed an auction of spanish debt in which the country offered higher interest rates to buyers than previously. the dollar, a traditional "safe-haven" in turbulent times, rose against other major currencies following the korean attacks. the euro fell against the dollar, falling more than one cent to $1.3495, from $1.3618.
uk clearing house lch.clearnet spurns £400m us bid europe's largest independent clearing house, london-based lch.clearnet, has rebuffed a £400m bid for the company from intercontinental exchange (ice). the offer by ice, based in atlanta, georgia, was backed by the singapore stock exchange and highlights how clearing has become a major new sector for mergers and acquisitions in the wake of the financial crisis. regulators are drawing up rules that will force almost all derivatives transactions to go through registered exchanges and be processed by clearing houses. the moves are designed to boost transparency in the derivatives market and improve risk management for deals that have traditionally been done over-the-counter (otc): in other words, in private via brokerages or "bilaterally" between individual institutions. clearing houses act as central counterparties, ensuring that players get their money back if one participant involved in a deal goes bust. clearers require clients to furnish collateral or "margin" to provide a financial cushion for the clearing house so that it can repay debts that turn sour. lch.clearnet is controlled by more than 90 shareholders who are also its users – mostly banks and trading organisations such as the london metals exchange. the organisation is believed to have rejected ice's bid on the grounds that it did not reflect the true value of the clearer. ice's offer also ran into opposition from lch.clearnet's shareholders who feared a takeover could result in higher trading fees from fewer players in the market. "a higher offer could have brought them round to the negotiating table," said one stakeholder. roger liddell, chief executive of lch.clearnet, refused to comment on "bid speculation" but admitted the upshot of initiatives to put trading in financial instruments such as credit default swaps through registered exchanges and clearing houses would be "extreme". he said: "just look at the interest rate swap market, where trades today are worth a notional value of $350tn [£219tn] but only $115tn go through lch, the rest are traded over-the-counter." liddell said the expanding market will increase competition but bring fees down in the long term as consolidation follows "proliferation". ice serves global markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions and energy markets. it also operates three futures exchanges, including the london-based ice futures europe, which hosts daily trading in half of the world's crude and refined oil futures contracts. two years ago, ice began to build its clearing house operation in london, but observers believe the americans want to acquire lch.clearnet because building their business organically was too slow a process. the singaporeans are keen to expand in london and view ice as a potential ally. paul swann, of ice clear europe, said: "we are likely to see more asset classes go through clearing houses following initiatives announced at the g20 meeting in london last year and the passing of new laws in washington." analysts say lch is under pressure as the london stock exchange has indicated it plans to set up its own clearing house for cash equities, making it more important than ever that lch expands into areas that were previously dominated by over-the-counter businesses.
stock markets fall and oil surges on middle east unrest with the oil price rising again overnight, fears that the global economic recovery could unravel sent the ftse 100 falling by 69 points to 5865.92, a drop of 1.1%. this followed a hefty sell-off in asia, where tokyo suffered its worse one-day performance in six months. other european markets also fell. "it's becoming more obvious that unrest in bahrain could prove of far greater importance to the strategic balance of power in the middle east and to the oil market than first assumed. the fact that saudi arabia, connected to bahrain by the 15-mile king fahd causeway, is reportedly sending tanks into bahrain speaks for itself," said parpart. the cost of brent crude oil hit $116 a barrel in early trading. us crude remained above the $100-mark breached late on tuesday. simon denham, managing director of capital spreads, agreed that the city is increasingly focused on the middle east, where the saudi arabian stock market extended recent losses by falling nearly 5% on wednesday. "anyone watching the bbc's recent interview with the libyan 'leader' will think that he is completely detached from reality and as such capable of anything. this is not the sort of thing equity markets like and so investors remain on a cautious footing," denham said. earlier the japanese nikkei had fallen by 2.43%, or 261 points, to 10,492 – its biggest drop in percentage terms since 31 august 2010. the cost of insuring saudi arabian debt against default using a five-year credit default swap (cds) rose by 9 basis points to 145bp. this is still low in general terms – the greek cds traded around 965bp this morning. the cds for bahrain rose 14bp to 315bp, while qatar gained 5bp to 120bp, according to data from markit. "spreads are widening and stocks falling in reaction to the sharp rise in the oil price late yesterday," said gavan nolan, director of credit research at markit. "the current source of concern is saudi arabia, where there are signs that the unrest that has affected other middle east and north african countries could affect the world's biggest oil producer." the legendary investor warren buffett, though, said he remained relaxed about the crisis's impact on his own investment company, berkshire hathaway. buffett told cnbc that the oil market was not suffering real supply problems yet – but that the markets were anticipating future shortages.
hedge funds bounce back with £79bn profit in six months hedge funds have roared back from the financial crisis, delivering profits of $129bn (£79bn) to their clients in just six months. while many industries are still suffering from the aftermath of the global economic downturn, hedge funds appear to be in rude health. lch investments has calculated that the 10 leading hedge funds alone made $28bn for their customers in the second half of 2010. that is more than the combined net profits of goldman sachs, jp morgan, citigroup, morgan stanley, barclays and hsbc over the same period, according to the financial times. lch's figures show how much profit was generated for hedge fund clients. the firms themselves will typically earn a 20% cut of profits, plus a fee of perhaps 2% of funds under management. stock markets rallied sharply during the second half of last year, a time when many commodity prices also surged. this appears to have helped hedge fund managers to generate large returns. most of the profits were made by the top 100 firms – calculated by the money they have made over their lifetimes. nine of the top 10 hedge funds were based in the us, and included the george soros fund quantum, john paulson's paulson & co and bridgewater pure alpha run by ray dalio. the only non-us fund was the london and geneva-based brevan howard, which is managed by alan howard, a publicity-shy briton who set up the company in 2003 and now operates from marks and spencer's former headquarters in baker street. nagi kawkabani, chief executive of brevan howard, told the ft that hedge funds had benefited because some investment banks had closed their own proprietary trading operations, which allowed them to trade shares, currencies and commodities with their own money. these "prop desks" are being shuttered as part of new us curbs on investment banks.
former goldman sachs director charged with insider dealing "rajaratnam used the inside information to trade on behalf of some of galleon's hedge funds, or shared the information with others at his firm, who then traded on it ahead of public announcements by the firms," the sec claims. among other information, gupta is alleged to have passed on, the sec charges that he called rajaratnam after a telephone conference call with goldman's board and tipped him off about buffett's investment in the bank. within a minute of the call, rajaratnam allegedly arranged for galleon funds to purchase more than 175,000 goldman shares, the sec said. rajaratnam sold his holdings the day after the information became public, making $900,000 in illicit profits, according to the sec. the sec also alleges that gupta gave rajaratnam information about a call in which lloyd blankfein, goldman's chief executive, had told him that the second quarter returns in 2008 would be better than expected. gupta also allegedly tipped off rajaratnam about p&g's results for the quarter ending december 2008. the sec claims that galleon funds then sold short roughly 180,000 p&g shares, making illicit profits of more than $570,000. the regulator alleges that rajaratnam and others generated more than $13.6m in illicit profits and avoided more than $3m in losses from the tips. gupta was a beneficiary and was at the time a direct or indirect investor in some of the galleon hedge funds, as well as having other business interests with rajaratnam, according to the sec's claims. "gupta was honoured with the highest trust of leading public companies, and he betrayed that trust by disclosing their most sensitive and valuable secrets," robert khuzami, director of the sec's division of enforcement, said. "directors who violate the sanctity of boardroom confidences for private gain will be held to account." born in calcutta, gupta, 62, is a harvard business school graduate and a former adviser on management reforms to the secretary general of the united nations. an ex-managing director of the consultancy mckinsey, he was the first non-us citizen to hold the post. he serves as chairman of the international chamber of commerce and is a philanthropist who mixes in the same circles as bono, bill clinton and bill gates. federal prosecutors notified gupta last year that they had intercepted phone conversations between him and rajaratnam. he did not stand for re-election to goldman's board. in a statement, gary naftalis, gupta's lawyer, said: "the sec's allegations are totally baseless. mr gupta's 40-year record of ethical conduct, integrity and commitment to guarding his clients' confidences is beyond reproach. "mr gupta has done nothing wrong and is confident that these unfounded allegations will be rejected. there is no allegation that mr gupta traded in any of these securities or shared in any profits as part of any quid pro quo. in fact, he had lost his entire $10m investment in the gb voyager fund managed by rajaratnam at the time of these events, negating any motive to deviate from a lifetime of honesty and integrity." galleon was one of the world's largest hedge funds before becoming the centre of an insider trading scandal in october 2009. the trial of rajaratnam on multiple counts of fraud and insider trading is due to start on 8 march. he has pleaded not guilty and is currently free on a $100m bond. the case is part of the largest insider dealing investigation ever undertaken by the us authorities. so far, 26 people have been charged and 19 have pleaded guilty, among them gupta's former protege at mckinsey, anil kumar. last year kumar admitted to taking $2.6m in exchange for revealing secrets about mckinsey clients, including the chipmaker advanced micro devices.
how the rich soaked the rest of us one conclusion is clear and obvious: the richest americans have dramatically lowered their income tax burden since 1945, both absolutely and relative to the tax burdens of the middle income groups and the poor. the lower taxes the rich got for themselves are one reason why they have become so much richer over the last half century. just as their tax rates started to come down from their 1960s heights, so their shares of the total national income began their rise. as the two other wikipedia graphs below show, we have now returned to the extreme inequality of income that characterised the us a century ago. the graph above shows the portion/percentage of total national income taken by the top 1%, the top tenth of a percent, and the top 100th of a percent of individuals and families: the richest of the rich. the third graph compares what happened to the after-tax household incomes of americans from 1979 to 2005 (adjusted for inflation). the bottom fifth of poorest citizens saw their income barely rise at all. the middle fifth of income earners saw their after-tax household income rise by less than 25%. meanwhile, the top 1 % of households saw their after-tax household incomes rise by 175%. in simplest terms, the richest americans have done by far the best over the last 30 years, they are more able to pay taxes today than they have been in many decades, and they are more able to pay than other americans by a far wider margin. at a time of national economic crisis, especially, they can and should contribute far more in taxes. instead, a rather vicious cycle has been at work for years. reduced taxes on the rich leave them with more money to influence politicians and politics. their influence wins them further tax reductions, which gives them still more money to put to political use. when the loss of tax revenue from the rich worsens already strained government budgets, the rich press politicians to cut public services and government jobs and not even debate a return to the higher taxes the rich used to pay. so it goes – from washington, to wisconsin, to new york city. how do the rich justify and excuse this record? they claim that they can invest the money they save from taxes and thereby create jobs, etc. but do they? in fact, cutting rich people's taxes is often very bad for the rest of us (beyond the worsening inequality and hobbled government it produces). second, the richest americans take the money they save from taxes and invest big parts of it in china, india and elsewhere. that often produces more jobs over there, fewer jobs here, and more imports of goods produced abroad. us dollars flow out to pay for those imports and so accumulate in the hands of foreign banks and foreign governments. they, in turn, lend from that wealth to the us government because it does not tax our rich, and so we get taxed to pay for the interest washington has to give those foreign banks and governments. the largest single recipient of such interest payments today is the people's republic of china. third, the richest americans take the money they don't pay in taxes and invest it in hedge funds and with stockbrokers to make profitable investments. these days, that often means speculating in oil and food, which drives up their prices, undermines economic recovery for the mass of americans, and produces acute suffering around the globe. those hedge funds and brokers likewise use part of the money rich people save from taxes to speculate in the us stock markets. that has recently driven stock prices higher: hence, the stock market recovery. and that mostly helps – you guessed it – the richest americans who own most of the stocks. the one kind of significant wealth average americans own, if they own any, is their individual home. and home values remain deeply depressed: no recovery there. cutting the taxes on the rich in no way guarantees social benefits from what they may choose to do with their money. indeed, their choices can worsen economic conditions for the mass of people. these days, that is exactly what they are doing.
bank of japan injects £165bn in effort to repair economy the unprecedented intervention failed to prevent the country's main stock market index plunging by more than 6% on monday, followed by a further 6% slump early this morning when markets opened, but is thought to have averted a steeper fall. tokyo's nikkei index dragged down shares across the world as investors worried that a decline in the world's third biggest economy would reduce the value of goods and services the country bought from overseas. the ftse 100 index of leading british shares slumped by nearly 1% and its europe-wide equivalent fell by 1.06%. in the us, the s&p 500 was down 1.15% in afternoon trading, while germany's dax and france's cac 40 indices ended the day down 1.65% and 1.3% respectively. analysts said european shares would probably have fallen further, if brussels had not agreed at the weekend to increase the eurozone's bailout fund from around ¤250bn (£216bn) to ¤440bn, making a repeat of the irish and greek crises less likely. as japanese workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown and the unrest continued in the middle east, the price of oil and gas increased amid concerns that japan, a country heavily dependent on nuclear energy, may need to significantly step up its consumption of fossil fuels. japan typically gets about a third of its energy from nuclear power. it has seen its capacity reduced by more than a fifth by the country's worst earthquake, which has left 11 reactors out of action. michala marcussen, head of global economics at the french bank societe generale, said: "power supply is a critical factor. if power production output is damaged in a sustainable fashion, that could have a durable impact on the economy." the price of gas jumped by as much as 7.4% to the highest level since november 2008, while a barrel of brent crude oil tumbled by $0.56, or 0.5%, to $113.28 at one stage before rising again slightly later. gold jumped by as much as 1% to $1,431.89 (£885.34) an ounce and silver rose by more than 2% as rattled investors fled from any asset that looked risky into the relative safety of precious metals. the japanese economy is expected to take a huge hit over the next few months as companies there, including foreign businesses such as glaxosmithkline, the british drug firm, temporarily cease production, with frequent disruptions expected to continue for weeks. toyota, the world's largest carmaker, said that it would produce up to 40,000 fewer vehicles, as it closes 12 plants across the country until at least wednesday night. the company will lose $72m for each day its operations are shut down in japan. air worldwide, the risk modelling agency, calculates that the global insurance bill for the earthquake will be $35bn (£22bn), while the total economic losses – insurance costs plus lost productivity – would add up to more than £62bn, according to the equecat risk consultancy. meanwhile, uk, european, us and asian economies will also suffer, but to a far lesser degree, as exports to japan fall. nariman behravesh, chief economist at ihsglobal insight in new york, estimates the disaster could knock as much as 5% off japan's gross domestic product (gdp) in the second quarter of the year – april to june – and between 0.3% and 0.5% over 2011 as a whole. the uk and the us are likely to see around 0.1% knocked off their gdp as a result of the disaster this year, with the asian economies being hit "about two or three times as hard as that", behravesh said. "with these kind of disasters, the economy typically takes a big hit to start with but later benefits from huge levels of reconstruction activity. i would expect a significant slowdown in japan in the second quarter but then there could be a significant rebound as soon as the third quarter." "purely in terms of economic growth, the damage as a result of the disasters and the reconstruction activity roughly cancel each other out," he added. "it is a rich country with a lot of savings and can handle this." in asia, the effect of the earthquake on the leading stock exchanges was mixed. hong kong's hang seng index rose by 0.4% and china's shanghai composite edged up by 0.1%, with coal companies benefitting in particular on the hope that nuclear power problems in japan would force the country to burn more fossil fuel at the same time as the expected frequent power cuts would allow asian rivals to steal away some of its business. however, shares in taiwan's taiex index fell by 0.56% to a three month low, on concern that the japanese crisis would reduce tourists from the country as well as demand for exports. the earthquake also had a mixed impact on commodity prices. while some commodities increased, others, such as corn, cocoa, sugar, cotton and copper decreased, on concern that the decline of the japanese economy would reduce demand for them.
mckinsey implicated in galleon trial the management consultants from the mckinsey group gather in washington this week as the reputations of some its most senior former employees are on the line in a new york court. according to prosecutors, raj rajaratnam, billionaire founder of the galleon hedge fund, was fed lucrative and illegal tips about mckinsey clients by some of the consultancy's top executives. rajaratnam is accused of making $50m (£31m) from these and other tips and faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted. anil kumar, a former senior mckinsey partner who has pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is co-operating with the government, took the stand for the second day on monday. kumar, one of the prosecution's star witnesses, has agreed to forfeit $2.7m in fees and profits he received from galleon. kumar said rajaratnam paid him in the name of kumar's housekeeper and passed him confidential documents about the chipmaker intel, rival of kumar's mckinsey client amd. kumar alleged the hedge fund manager pressed him for financial details on amd. "he wanted to move to an arrangement where he could monitor the benefits and share the profits," he testified. in court jonathan streeter, a federal prosecutor, has mentioned a third, as yet unnamed, mckinsey executive. he is believed to be david palecek, a former classmate of rajaratnam's brother rengan. streeter told the jury they would hear a recording of a phone conversation rajaratnam had with his brother "talking about plotting to get inside information from a consultant at mckinsey". streeter said rajaratnam described the executive as "dirty" and talked about getting him to "play ball" by adding his wife to the galleon payroll. palecek died last year but catherine redlich, a new york-based lawyer who represents his wife, said in a statement: "what the tape does not reflect is that mr palecek never agreed to "play ball" with the rajaratnams, never received money from them, and never agreed to put his wife on galleon's payroll." last week kumar testified that he shared client secrets with rajaratnam because he felt obliged to him after agreeing to accept $500,000 a year in consulting fees. "mr rajaratnam kept asking me for that information and i felt that i owed him something given how much money he was paying me," kumar told the court. according to telephone conversations secretly taped by prosecutors, kumar and rajaratnam discussed transactions involving amd, business objects, cisco, ebay, samsung electronics, spansion and other companies. many of these firms were or are mckinsey clients. a spokeswoman for mckinsey said the firm had no comment. sources close to the firm said the trial and its implications would be discussed at this week's annual partners' meeting in washington. more than 1,300 of mckinsey's senior staff are expected at the meeting. last week john dowd, rajaratnam's top lawyer, said it was a "monstrous lie" that his client had manipulated kumar into betraying his clients. he said he would show that kumar funnelled his money into his own accounts and did not properly inform mckinsey about it. kumar has said he violated mckinsey's policies when he shared confidential client information with rajaratnam. mckinsey is built on a "foundation of trust", he said. if the firm ever lost its reputation for maintaining client confidences, he said, "it could destroy the trust that mckinsey had with its clients". founded in 1926, mckinsey is arguably the best-known management consultant in the world. the firm operates as a partnership and has strict rules on client confidentiality not least because its business operates on a "non-exclusive" basis with different teams allowed to work for competitors.
japan earthquake rocks london stock market the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in japan led to a flurry of activity on the london stock market and further afield , as investors digested the impact of the disaster on british and global companies. the explosion at the fukushima nuclear plant caused particular financial upheaval, as investors moved money from companies exposed to the nuclear sector and into other forms of power generation. the biggest riser among the top 100 stocks was aggreko, the fast-growing temporary power supplier. a company spokesperson said the business was "ready to help japan and its people in any way it can by supplying temporary power if asked". its shares rose more than 8%, finishing 116p up at £15.23. the ftse index of 100 leading shares fell 53 points, or nearly 1%, to 5775 – its lowest point since the beginning of december last year. shares in companies linked to nuclear power fell around the world, particularly after the swiss government took the decision to suspend approvals for new nuclear projects. american group general electric was down in early us trading, while french company edf, which is among those looking to build 12 proposed new nuclear power stations in the uk over the next few years, saw its shares fall 5%. london-listed amec, which also has a big nuclear business from new build to decommissioning, was also hit, falling 3.2%, or 37p, to reach £11.15. a number of uranium explorers listed on the london markets were also suffering. kalahari minerals, an aim-listed miner that specialises in uranium, gold, copper and other base metals in namibia, saw its shares fall 7.7%, wiping £60m from its market value. spanish uranium explorer berkeley resources was also down, by 15%. solar energy companies, by contrast, were up. first solar, a us solar specialist, saw its shares rise almost 7%. as well as weighing up the impact on energy generation, investors were moving their money out of the luxury goods sector. japan is the third largest market for luxury goods, with the consultancy bain suggesting the market there was worth €18bn (£15.6bn) in 2009. an expectation that the japanese economy, if not just consumer spending, would be hit, pushed burberry's shares down. the market generates 7% of burberry's sales, and as a result it was the largest faller among ftse 100 stocks , losing 4.3%, or 51p, to finish at £11.23. that trend was replicated worldwide too, with the top european luxury goods companies all reeling from the impact. in paris, shares in lvmh were down more than 3% while gucci and yves saint laurent owner ppr was off 2.5%. analysts at mf global suggested demand for luxury goods could be "badly impacted" in the short term. the effect on insurers was also worrying investors. though few uk insurers have bills to pick up from the japanese disaster, the effect on reinsurers and a potential hardening of the insurance market were of concern. shares in aviva fell in particular, with the uk's largest insurer down 3%, or by 14p, to 440p. one lloyds insurer that did insure japanese assets, chaucer holdings, was at pains to point out the limits of its involvement. its specialist nuclear syndicate provides cover to the tokyo electric power company, which runs the fukushima nuclear plants. chaucer said its policy specifically excludes earthquakes and tsunamis. insurers will only be called on to cover commercial losses, since the japanese government covers residential losses from earthquakes. kathy fear, an insurance analyst at ubs, said in a note that some of the share price drops for the insurers were probably overdone: "given the scale of the earthquake and the global spread of insurers and reinsurers in the region, it is too early to estimate either the total industry loss or the individual company losses." coming on the back of the new zealand earthquake and the australian floods, global reinsurers are expected to be under pressure to meet their profits figures as a result of the unprecedented sequence of natural disasters. reinsurers munich re, swiss re and hannover re have collectively lost €3.1bn (£2.6bn) in market valuations since the disaster on friday. all three were falling further, with declines of about 3-4%.
bank of japan pumps billions into financial markets the boj pledged to prevent investors losing faith in the world's third-largest economy by offering huge amounts of liquidity to the markets as well as an asset purchase programme. masaaki shirakawa, boj governor, said it was "necessary to boost monetary easing further". but the measures did not prevent shares falling sharply in tokyo. the boj reacted quickly to the crisis, offering a total of ¥15 trillion ($183bn) in short-term liquidity, in an attempt to ensure that japan's banks would keep lending. there is expected to be a surge in demand for money following the devastating earthquake, to fund rescue work and reconstruction projects and to cover the ongoing economic disruption. the central bank also voted to ease its current monetary policy stance by doubling the size of its asset purchasing scheme, from ¥5 trillion to ¥10 trillion. the boj said it took this step "with a view to pre-empting a deterioration in business sentiment and an increase in risk aversion in financial markets from adversely affecting economic activity". most of the money will be spent on riskier assets. the boj offered to buy ¥3 trillion of government bonds from lenders in repurchase agreements, which could underpin demand for its sovereign debt. it also left japan's interest rates unchanged, at between zero and 0.1%. japan's finance minister yoshihiko noda, welcomed the moves, and also indicated that the government will bring forward an emergency budget that will be larger than the 1995 equivalent, which followed the kobe earthquake. shirakawa said that he had received offers of help from other central banks. his uk counterpart, mervyn king, had been due to address the japan bankers association in tokyo on monday, but his visit was cancelled because of the disaster. "it was certainly an emotion charged-day on asian equities with breaking news circulating seemingly every few minutes ranging from record liquidity injections from the boj to further catastrophes at other nuclear reactors," said chris weston, institutional trader at ig markets in melbourne. "the end result was panic and indiscriminate selling," weston added. tokyo electric power, the utility company that runs the fukushima reactor, was the biggest faller with a 23.6% plunge. many of japan's major manufacturers also fell sharply, indicating that they are expected to struggle to recover from japan's deepest crisis in decades. some stocks rose, though, as investors anticipated the huge recovery operation that will be needed across the world's third-largest economy. kajima corporation, a civil engineering firm with expertise in both construction and demolition, jumped by more than 22%. oil producer bg group gained 3.1% to £14.96, and temporary power provider aggreko jumped nearly 5%. insurance and reinsurance firms also fell across europe, adding to last friday's losses. hannover re lost 7.6%, and swiss re almost 6%. some economists believe the earthquake will push japan into another recession, undermining its efforts to cut its deficit and deal with a national debt that is already double its gdp. the rating agencies, though, have resisted making any early decisions on the country's credit rating. moody's said the disaster would put additional pressure on japan's fiscal position, but did not announce a downgrade. despite the likely economic disruption, the yen has strengthened since the earthquake struck. this has been driven by speculation that japanese companies will need to "repatriate" funds from overseas to fund rebuilding efforts, while insurers could need to buy large quantities of yen to settle insurance claims. "despite the inevitable liquidity injections from the central bank, expectations that repatriation flows could be significant as the re-building process gets underway have been the dominant influence on the yen since friday," said jane foley, senior currency strategist at rabobank. at one stage on monday the yen neared a record high against the dollar before dropping back. a strong domestic currency will make it even harder for japanese manufacturers to profit from exports. analysts believe the boj may take further action to prevent the yen rising too high.
japan's nikkei plunges 6.18% in earthquake aftermath the losses came as the boj offered to pump a total of 15 trillion yen (£114bn) into the banking system, to reassure any investors who feared that the japanese markets would simply seize up. it had already promised to prevent speculators profiting from the disaster. the offer of liquidity helped to weaken the yen, which had threatened to hit record highs against the dollar early this morning. the boj also expanded the size of its asset-purchasing programme by around 5 trillion yen, and voted to leave interest rates at their current record low [of zero to 0.1%]. some economists, though, were disappointed that the boj did not change its overall assessment of the japanese economy.
japanese earthquake shocks markets japanese companies and investors raced to repatriate their assets, selling dollars and other foreign currencies, and were also expected to sell european and us government bonds to prepare for the cost of rebuilding their domestic economy. early estimates of the cost of the quake for major insurers were put at $10bn to $15bn (£6.2bn to £9.3bn), while the leading economist nouriel roubini – known as dr doom for predicting the credit crunch – warned that the quake could not have hit at a worse time for a japanese economy struggling with a budget deficit of almost 10% of gross domestic product. "this is certainly the worst thing that can happen in japan at the worst time," roubini said. the japanese economy contracted 1.3% from october to december and there were concerns about the impact the tragedy might have on the global economy. analysts at the investment house brown brothers harriman said: "the typical expectation, based on past experience, is for japanese investors to repatriate funds." the bank of japan – which has no scope to cut rates, because they are already at 0% to stimulate growth – moved quickly to promise a policy update on monday, rather than tuesday. "the bank will continue to do its utmost, including the provision of liquidity, to ensure the stability in financial markets and to secure the smooth settlement of funds, in the coming week," the central bank said. the dollar fell to ¥81.99 by lunchtime in new york while the price of us crude fell to as low as $99 a barrel, although brent crude was at $113 a barrel. there were concerns that major insurers such as munich re and swiss re might have to issue profit warnings as their budgets for natural catastrophe claims had already been depleted by the australian flood and new zealand earthquake. the ftse 100 closed at 5828, its lowest level since december. work at factories run by major companies such as toyota and sony was suspended and oil prices fell because japan – the third largest oil importer – was expected to need less. the expected reduction in demand took the heat out of oil prices which have been inflated by the instability in the middle east. however, there was an impact on wholesale gas prices, which rose by almost 4% in the uk after six of japan's reactors were shut down. uk electricity prices also rose by 2%. japan generates about a third of its electricity from nuclear and it could be months before all its reactors are back online. analysts said it was likely japanese utilities would buy up extra cargoes of liquefied natural gas (lng) to power reserve gas plants to make up the shortfall. edward cox, an analyst from consultancy icis heren, said traders would not know until early next week how much extra lng japan decides to import and at what price. analysts were searching for comparisons with the quake that hit the port of kobe in january 1995 and had a total economic cost of $100bn, or 2% of gdp. it also caused a 1,000 point fall in the nikkei that led to the rogue trader nick leeson being exposed. barings bank, his employer, collapsed as a result of the vast losses leeson had run up, just a month later. "when the kobe earthquake hit, markets reacted by selling japanese stocks. the nikkei 225 fell by 7.5% in the days following. by contrast, nikkei futures show only a 2% fall for monday. there was little if any discernible effect on the yen during the kobe disaster. currently the yen is holding up well, and may even be supported by insurance claims which may require substantial conversion of dollars to yen," said analysts at dutch bank ing. but economists were concerned that the japanese authorities had fewer options to stimulate the economy than they did in 1995. julian jessop, chief international economist at capital economics, said: "at the very least, the scope for fiscal stimulus to mitigate the economic damage is much less than it was in 1995." he thinks the authorities will repeat their actions and introduce special loan facilities to help those areas most affected. joy ferneyhough, head of insurance research at banco espírito santo, noted that the quake had not hit tokyo, where the heaviest insurance losses could be expected. major insurers will now be scrambling teams of loss adjusters to the affected areas. some of them will be trading at the lloyd's of london market, which said it was "far too early" to assess the potential cost. "our efforts will be focused on dealing with claims quickly and helping people and businesses recover," lloyd's said.
quake may derail japan's economy japan's central bank will announce any policy response to the disaster on monday, in a meeting due to begin at 1pm local time (4am gmt). it had previously been expecting to announce its regular monthly decision on monetary policy next tuesday. the boj could decide to pump liquidity into the system in an attempt to limit the impact of the 8.9 magnitude quake. the japanese economy shrank by 1.3% in the last three months of 2010, and there are fears that its recovery could be knocked off course. the boj said it would do whatever was needed to protect the japanese economy and keep its financial system running. "the bank will continue to do its utmost, including the provision of liquidity, to ensure the stability in financial markets and to secure the smooth settlement of funds, in the coming week," it said. one report claimed that japan could lose as much as 1% of gross domestic product (gdp) this year. factories have been damaged, with many manufacturers, including toyota and sony, suspending work at some plants. but helen hodge, natural hazards analyst at the risk analysis and mapping firm maplecroft, was more positive. "typically, after such large events in well-developed economies, an associated boom in construction is seen in the months following an event. this boom effect could provide a welcome buffer from any short-term impact on japanese gdp," hodge said. stock markets reacted relatively calmly to the earthquake, which struck near to the end of the trading day in japan. while the nikkei fell by 1.7% in a late rush of selling, european markets have only shown small losses. analysts have already warned that insurance premiums could rise, following a series of recent natural disasters. hodge said: "as individual events, the australian floods, cyclone yasi [in australia], the christchurch earthquake and today's honshu earthquake are unlikely to significantly affect global reinsurance prices. however, their cumulative effect could well harden markets over the coming year. "the insurance markets will be waiting nervously to see what the remainder of 2011 brings, particularly in the light of the unfavourable north atlantic pre-hurricane season forecast," she added, "it is far too early for us to comment on any potential business impact but, as ever, our efforts will be focused on dealing with claims quickly and helping people and businesses recover." munich re also said it was "far too early" to give any indication of insured losses. estimates for the total cost of the disaster varied. joy ferneyhough, a banco espírito santo analyst, suggested insurers could face up to $15bn of claims, while james shuck of jefferies research argued that a $10bn hit was more likely. reuters reported that the quake could trigger about $1bn worth of "catastrophe bonds", a kind of insurance that pays out following a natural disaster if certain conditions are met.
moving the goalposts on public pensions hutton's report does little more than say that if the private sector is in the gutter, public sector provision should be dragged there too. private-sector employees have as much interest in seeing the example of a good standard of pension provision as the beneficiaries. otherwise it will be a race to the bottom. the report also hides the need for the nation to develop a long-term source of wealth for all, and not just a city elite. with a good proportion of public sector pensions funded through investment, they will still be at risk unless city short-termism is tackled, and wealth shared equally. hutton does a disservice to all. charlie sharp  london the government claims these changes will help reduce the deficit, but they will take money out of the pay packets of today's workers and from tomorrow's pensioners, suppressing demand and damaging any prospect of recovery, as well as increasing pensioner poverty. on public sector pensions, as on so much else, the government has got it wrong. i know there has always been a discrepancy between men and women and qualifying age for state pensions. indeed the equalising and raising of the state retirement age is what this legislation is about. however, the raising of the state retirement age for women was to have been phased in gradually. now not only do we have the state pension goalposts moved, but a totally illogical and unfair system has been imposed on women. lynne nicholls  dawlish, devon andrew melbourne  square one financial planning llp a system based on career average would only be fair if based on increases resulting from promotion, and adjusted for price inflation. it would also be interesting to learn what john cridland's expectations are of his pension. maurice clift crawley, west sussex david gilbert dawlish, devon
perform digital rights group to float on stock exchange perform group, the digital sports rights company, is to float on the london stock exchange with an offer that could value the business at more than £500m. perform, of which american billionaire leonard blavatnik owns a 58% stake, is looking to make an initial public offering to float a minimum of 25% of the company. the company expects to raise about £70m from the primary component of the new share issue. existing management and staff collectively own 40% of the business and, along with us group access industries, will reduce their stakes as part of a secondary component to the float, which will value the compnay at more that £500m. blavatnik's access industries holds stakes in media companies including uk pay tv operator top up tv and warner music. the company said that the proceeds will be used to "accelerate" organic growth plans and make strategic acquisitions to build the business. perform also unveiled a new management structure in line with admission to the lse with paul walker, the former chief executive of sage, becoming non-executive chairman. "i have been impressed by the significant growth that perform has delivered as a private company," he said. "but there is more to come and i believe perform has a very promising future as a publicly listed company." non-executive directors include peter williams, who recently stood down as finance director at daily mail & general trust. "i am pleased we have helped form the business and guide it through its early stages," said blavatnik. "the listing heralds a new phase to cement its position as a leading global online sports business." perform has contracts to exploit digital sports rights from more than 200 sports leagues and last year streamed live more than 25,000 events. perform has appointed credit suisse and morgan stanley as joint sponsors and co-ordinators of the offer with the two banks, and ubs, also named as joint bookrunners.
'biggest insider trading trial since the 80s' begins a one-time billionaire hedge fund manager exploited a "corrupt network" of consultants, friends and company executives to orchestrate a vast insider trading operation that netted him tens of millions of dollars in illicit earnings, a manhattan court has heard. in the opening statements of the trial, the chief prosecutor, jonathan streeter, painted a picture of a vast network that he said had been founded upon greed and corruption. he said rajaratnam had made use of secret information about public companies to get ahead of competitors in unfair trading. the hedge fund manager had acquired "tomorrow's business news today". rajaratnam stands accused of amassing $45m in illicit profits over the six years to march 2009. if found guilty, he faces up to 20 years in jail. rajaratnam's defence rests on the argument that he was merely doing legitimate business. his main lawyer, john dowd, told the jury that the financier built his hedge fund on "shoe-leather research". "there is a real-world context in which law-abiding professionals discuss stocks and trades. it is legal and it is good for all of us. the evidence will show the government has it wrong. the government has it wrong because it failed to do its homework," said dowd. during what is expected to be a 10-week trial, the jury of seven women and five men will hear from a host of witnesses who were allegedly involved in the galleon operation. nineteen people have already pleaded guilty in the case. in total, 26 people were charged in addition to rajaratnam, among them traders, company chiefs and lawyers. an unusual feature of the trial is likely to be the abundance of audio material presented to the jury, based on extensive use of phone tapping. some 173 recordings have been lodged with the court and are likely to be played to the jurors. in its opening statement, the prosecution announced that the witnesses it would be calling would include a former galleon trader called adam smith, rajiv goel, who was a senior manager at intel, and a former consultant at mckinsey's, anil kumar. the three are among the 19 who have pleaded guilty, and streeter said they would testify that they had shared inside information with rajaratnam, who then acted upon it. one of the phone taps, streeter told the court, would relate to the wall street giant goldman sachs. it would reveal rajaratnam telling his employees that he had learnt from rajat gupta, who sits on the goldman board, that they were about to lose $2 a share – the firm's first losses as a public company. at the time, in october 2008, it was widely assumed that goldman was poised to register a profit. rajaratnam, the prosecution alleges, dumped his goldman stock, saving a fortune in the process. gupta has not been charged with insider trading, but faces civil charges from the securities and exchange commission. his lawyer has said he did nothing wrong. the trial continues.
itv and wood set to join ftse 100 itv capped a remarkable business turnaround last week when it announced bumper profits for 2010, as hit shows such as the x factor and downton abbey propelled a surge in tv advertising revenues. as a key operator in the fast-growing oil services industry, wood group's stock has also been in the ascendency. last month, it emerged as a potential takeover target after the company sold its well support unit to america's ge for £1.7bn. but irrespective of whether a bid is forthcoming, wood would appear to be well positioned with the recent surge in the oil price likely to be sustained. the identity of the groups being promoted to – and ejected from – the ftse 100 and ftse 250 indexes will be determined by the closing price on tuesday and announced after the market closes on wednesday. the new entrants will officially take up their positions in the indices after the market closes next friday. companies outside the ftse 100 that grow to rank among the 90 largest by market capitalisation are automatically promoted, while the ftse 100 firms with the lowest value or that fall to 111th spot or below drop into the ftse 250. other contenders for promotion into the ftse 100 are stockbroker hargreaves lansdown, meggitt, the industrial group and informa, the business publishing and events company. in the ftse 250, wind turbine component maker hansen transmission, personal care product manufacturer mcbride, and sportingbet, the internet betting group, are on course to be relegated to small cap status. among the small caps, kofax, a software company, is top of the list to be promoted into the ftse 250, with northgate, another software maker, and packaging group rpc also candidates.
glencore in talks with bp grandees for top boardroom positions glencore plans to beef up its board with leading figures from the oil industry so that it can make a push into this booming commodity sector after raising money for a possible listing on the stock market. the privately-owned group has amassed a number of oil assets including a 40% stake in various subsidiaries of siberian oil producer and refiner, russneft, ownership of marine fuels specialist chemoil energy and equity stakes in fields off west africa. the company declined to comment but insiders say the commodity trading group would like to take advantage of any further opportunities that come along in this area which is booming with oil price at $114 a barrel. but they also say that dozens of candidates for board positions are still under consideration. chase and hayward have been discussing a board appointment at glencore as the swiss group prepares to comply with best corporate governance practice. but last week it reported a 40% surge in annual profits to £2.3bn prompting analysts at credit suisse to talk about the business being worth $60bn (£37bn). ivan glasenberg, the former coal trader turned chief executive of glencore, told the city that it was "no longer appropriate" to remain a private company but gave no hints on the timing of an ipo or a closer tie-up with xstrata. glencore has gathered a phalanx of financial advisers including citigroup, morgan stanley and credit suisse leading industry experts to speculate a float will be announced within a matter of weeks. the commodity trader, which is also a producer and marketer of copper, coal and agricultural products, has a reputation for secrecy but says the bondholders who have backed previous cash-raising exercises are all amply aware of its detailed business arrangements. glencore has issued a public summary of its annual financial results and gave a briefing to the city but did not widely distribute the full annual report. the senior directors at glencore – such as glasenberg – stand to become billionaires should the group opt for flotation.
wall street's secretive 'expert networks' the volte-face immediately looks shrewd. as the markets close that evening, amd makes a quarterly earnings announcement admitting to a $330m (£201m) loss and a 13% drop in revenues. one day later, amd shares slump 13%, meaning the hedge fund manager had avoided losses of at least $140,355. despite appearances, the unnamed trader's move may have been neither clever nor lucky: in the hours preceding amd's announcement, the seller had conducted a 10-minute phone call with one mark anthony longoria, who is amd's supply-chain manager. that case is now part of the huge insider-dealing inquiry fixating wall street, which became even more sensational last week when the us securities and exchange commission filed civil charges against rajat gupta, the former head of the management consulting firm mckinsey. gupta, who denies any wrongdoing, is alleged to have passed corporate secrets learned as a board member of goldman sachs to raj rajaratnam, the founder of the galleon hedge fund, whose own trial on several counts of fraud and insider trading is due to start on tuesday. insider dealing is as old as markets themselves and the financial services authority, the uk regulator, said there were "abnormal pre-announcement price movements" before 30.6% of 2009 takeover announcements. while gupta's name makes the us inquiry among the highest-profile pursuits of insider traders since the groundbreaking wall street investigations of the 1980s, what is really unusual about this crackdown is how the likes of longoria have become embroiled in the controversy. the 44-year-old from round rock, texas, made the fateful amd call while moonlighting as a paid consultant for primary global research (pgr), a so-called "expert network" firm that matches industry experts with money managers looking for informed corporate news. court papers state that longoria, who is plea bargaining, was paid $300 an hour to provide information to pgr clients and, from january 2008 to march 2010, received more than $130,000 for his time. little is known about the world of expert networks. even the grandaddy of the sector – gerson lehrman group (glg) – was once dubbed new york's "most valuable company no one outside of wall street has ever heard of". the business practice is perfectly legal, unless inside information is exchanged and used, but increasingly there are suspicions that impropriety is occurring more often than regulators would like. in november, one don chu, a pgr employee, was arrested after evidence gleaned from wiretaps and the co-operation of richard choo-beng lee, who had already pleaded guilty to insider trading in the galleon case and is now a key witness. also that month, yves benhamou – a french doctor who was reportedly part of the guidepoint global investors expert network – was charged after allegedly tipping off a hedge fund manager with confidential information about a clinical trial. the questions these cases raised over the expert network industry have been limited to the us, where many of the firms are based, and there is no suggestion of any wrongdoing in london where the fsa privately plays down such firms' significance. however, the guardian has unearthed eight expert network firms operating within london – with one hired "expert" claiming that he alone has conducted "consultations" with more than 70% of the top investment banks in the city. big players including glg, coleman research and the benhamou-linked guidepoint all operate out of london, as do other firms including alphasights, cognolink, dematteo monness, expertview and informed edge. apart from expertview, none of the firms would speak publicly to this newspaper about their industry or the impact the us inquiry is having on their business. however, expertview's founder, martin tripp, said: "expert networks are a brilliant bespoke research tool, but you absolutely have to know the questions you can ask. we have had letters from us companies asking if we have any of their employees on our network and to remove them if we have. we have spent a lot of time and money getting our compliance right. we have telephone conversations with every single expert that we sign to the network. they are not authorised unless we've spoken to them." while expertview, which bills itself as a niche player concentrating on "quality not quantity", says it speaks to all its experts, that is not always true of some of the bigger players who conduct much of their vetting online. glg claims to have more than 850 clients worldwide, served by 300,000 experts in sectors such as healthcare, energy, accounting and finance. one uk-based expert with glg said: "you get 15 minutes' ethics training but it's very basic. they tell you 'don't say anything if it is confidential'. it is that level. i don't think there is much vetting. it is 'buyer beware'." another glg expert insisted said there was "quite a stringent process of form filling", while in a recent note to clients after the industry-wide controversy, glg's chief executive, alexander saint-amand, said: "we believe our policies and approach are the most robust in our industry and add significant transparency and controls over many types of uncontrolled and undocumented methods of information-gathering that exist outside of an expert network framework." still, despite these efforts, even experts admit that problems occur. john ansell, a pharmaceutical consultant who has conducted over 200 consultations for glg over four years, added: "only once has there been a problem. i told a bank something based on a rumour but they didn't want to hear it. it can happen inadvertently." last week's announcement that rajat gupta, the former head of management consulting group mckinsey, was among those charged in the securities and exchange commission's long-running insider dealing investigation propelled the inquiry's profile to new heights. gupta, who denies any wrongdoing, is a former goldman sachs and procter & gamble director as well as being a one-time adviser to the united nations and the biggest name to be directly dragged into the investigation thus far. it is alleged he passed corporate secrets to raj rajaratnam, whose hedge fund galleon is being examined in another part of the case, which in turn triggered charges against four further hedge fund managers. one-time olympic speed skating hopeful, donald longueuil, and noah freeman – who both once worked at $12bn hedge fund sac capital – have been charged with samir barai, founder of barai capital management, and his employee jason pflaum. prosecutors allege the four men swapped tips from employees of public companies and from expert network consultants. former hedge fund analyst danielle chiesi, who compared insider dealing to an orgasm, has admitted making $4m (£2.45m) from the illicit deals. sac founded by famed trader, steven a cohen, has a high profile on wall street but the fund has been embarrassed by names of other former employees being dragged into the glare of this sec investigation. following the charges against longueuil and freeman the company said it was outraged by their alleged actions.
itv on course to rejoin blue-chip stocks britain's largest commercial broadcaster reported profits before tax of £286m for last year, 11 times the £25m it made in recession-hit 2009, with total revenues reaching £2bn, driven by a market-beating 16% increase in tv advertising. itv, which was buoyed up enough by the financial outlook to reinstate a dividend payment for its interim results in july, said that advertiser confidence had continued into the first quarter of 2011 with ad revenues on track to be up by 12% year-on-year. the royal wedding and easter period would see april up between 8% and 12%. but a warning that there would be tougher times from the second quarter on, a point when the market improved significantly last year and advertisers spent heavily on events such as the world cup, failed to deter city enthusiasm for itv, with its share price up more than 9% to 90.66p, its highest level since 2007. this surge leaves itv well positioned to make a return to the ftse 100, which meets next wednesday for its quarterly review of which stocks to admit or drop, with automatic readmittance for any company ranked 90th or higher by market value. itv, which fell out of the ftse in september 2008 on the way to recording a £2.7bn loss, is hovering at about 81st position, with a market capitalisation of more than £3.6bn. the ftse 100 committee will make its decision based on the closing share price of stocks on tuesday. reinstatement would see itv rejoining the small number of media blue-chips, which include financial times owner pearson, sir martin sorrell's wpp, bskyb and reed elsevier. the broadcaster's solid performance in 2010 was blighted by production division itv studios, which makes shows such as coronation street and come dine with me, and saw revenues fall 12.5% year-on-year to £293m and earnings drop by 11% to £81m. itv studios' main problem was a 23% fall in international production revenue, primarily because i'm a celebrity ... get me out of here was not produced in the us, germany or sweden last year. the only positive trend at the division was an increase from 50% to 53% in the amount of the itv1 original programming budget being taken by itv studios. management is trying to improve itv studios' performance by developing tv formats that sell around the world. the division has not created an international hit entertainment format since dancing on ice in 2006. it has been rumoured that itv's stronger financial position may lead to a major acquisition to drive growth at itv studios. possible targets include midsomer murders producer all3media. debt has been slashed from £612m to £188m, the pension deficit has been reduced to £313m and itv is cash-rich, with £860m. itv is planning to invest an extra £25m this year – £12m on attracting programme-making talent to itv studios and developing new tv pilots, £7m on itv.com and £6m on digital channels such as itv2. adam crozier, the itv chief executive, said the first priority for itv studios was "organically sorting out a way to organise and run it and improve the number of ideas and quality coming out of it". he added that over a five-year period itv needed to expand its international production base. itv has a presence in seven countries and aims to increase this to 17 through a combination of growth, partnership and investment or acquisition. the company is also targeting improvement at its online operation. revenues at itv.com rose 17% year-on-year to £28m. crozier said the company aimed to widen online revenue beyond a dependence on advertising with the launch of a paid-for online tv service in the fourth quarter of this year. he said itv needed to "improve and give wider distribution" to the online tv service itv player, adding that it would "hopefully be on mobile phones and tablets shortly and [we are] scoping connected tv". crozier admitted that the broadcaster was having talks with google, a company that had been referred to by former itv executive chairman michael grade as a "parasite". but he maintained that any online television agreements had to have itv's concern about content control at heart. he also attempted to scotch the persistent rumours of disagreements with simon cowell about his continuing on-screen participation in itv's crown jewel, the x factor, although he admitted final details had not been hammered out for the next series. cowell has a hectic transatlantic schedule, thanks to the launch of the x factor usa this autumn. "we are not due to make decisions on x factor yet for a couple of months. there are a number of options," said crozier. "i can absolutely confirm for any avoidance of doubt that britain's got talent will appear in the spring and x factor in the autumn."
glencore may step out of shadows with london float glencore has brought in a former pr man from shell to help build a public face for the company – simon buerk, son of the veteran bbc foreign correspondent and newsreader michael buerk. but even he is reluctant to speak on or off the record. appropriately, glencore's name comes from "global energy commodity resources". the list of commodities it is involved with could fill a book: aluminium, copper, nickel, oil, coal, wheat, barley and sugar, to name a few. however, it is not satisfied. the group has been referred to as "one of the world's leading trading companies" but is worried that "trader" is synonymous in the public mind with "speculator" and wants to be seen differently – as a producer and perhaps as a "marketer". people who know glencore say its worries are legitimate, given that at least half the business is based around its physical assets and the rest largely from moving these assets to market. "if you go into a glencore office, you are not going to see people yelling at screens, as you might imagine in a typical trading business," one source said. "it's all quiet and calm. we would prefer to be seen as a transport and logistics firm, like dhl." it is also apparently unhappy about the secrecy tag, saying that sufficient information is available to those who need to know – and that includes the financial community, which received a prospectus as far back as 1996, when a first public bond was issued for $6.5bn. as recently as march last year, glencore issued a seven-year eurobond to raise ¤1.25bn, part of plans to reduce debts, which reached $13.5bn by the middle of last year. last autumn the group, which says it employs 50,000 staff at 15 plants in more than 40 countries, put out first-half financial results showing revenues had rocketed from $45bn to $70bn year-on-year, while pre-tax profits rose from $1.5bn to $2.6bn. despite such moves, it still refused requests for copies of its prospectuses. some in the city fret about glencore's perceived influence over xstrata, in which it is the biggest single shareholder and with which it holds a variety of marketing agreements and other commercial arrangements. these fears have intensified since speculation that glencore could try to reverse itself into the already listed xstrata. at the mining group's annual general meeting last year, investors holding a quarter of xstrata shares voted against the reappointment of willy strothotte, who controversially chairs both xstrata and glencore. a leading city investor, who asked to remain anonymous, said: "it is never ideal to have the company chaired by a representative of the largest shareholder. if glencore reverses itself into xstrata, a lot of people would be upset that this new relationship and a range of transparency issues would have a [negative] influence on the share price." no decision has yet been taken on whether to proceed with a float but glencore insiders say that a lot of preparatory work has been done and the button could be pushed in the coming weeks. "they have been doing their homework, working with the banks and talking to stock exchanges, so the option is there to be used. but there is no definite decision yet," said one person who knows the company well. the company's image also continues to be dogged by its former connection with rich, who spent many years in europe as a fugitive from us jurisdiction before being pardoned by president bill clinton on his last day in office. glencore is irritated by the link with rich being used against it, pointing out that it has been independent for 17 years. as one insider said: "we have the third generation of people in this company. apart from three people, no one ever met marc rich." insiders say that the nature of business in the 21st century means glencore needs to be able to lay its hands on more cash via equity rights issues and other methods. and while it does not have a wider strategy for buying industrial plants or ownership stakes, it is said to be driven by "opportunities" in sectors in which it has experience. under its demanding chief executive, the former coal trader ivan glasenberg, glencore has become increasingly acquisitive, and a flotation would allow it to reduce its debt and prepare for further operational expansion. potential acquisitions will come under the spotlight – and so will executive pay. the group has already attracted attention from rating agencies during bond issues for its "aggressive" profit-sharing schemes, and the top dozen managers are believed to own almost a third of the business. a flotation in london could make some new commodity billionaires: you will hear about that.
madoff trustee sues us watchdog lawyer over alleged $1.5m profit david becker, general counsel for the us's top financial watchdog, is now being sued as part of a "clawback" lawsuit brought by court-appointed trustee irving picard, who is seeking to recover assets from the estate of becker's mother, who died in 2004. picard alleges she made $1.5m investing with madoff, who is serving a 150-year jail sentence after being convicted of running a $65bn ponzi scheme in 2009. becker and his brothers were co-executors on his mother's estate. the lawsuit does not allege that becker or his brothers had any knowledge of the fraud. according to court records, the lawsuit was filed in december but was not served until this month. becker joined the sec in 1998 as deputy general counsel and took the top job in january 2000. in no one would listen, a book about the case by madoff whistleblower harry markopolos, he relates a meeting with the sec in which he clashed with becker. markopolos told becker and mary schapiro, head of the sec, that he would not bring cases to the agency because they were not able to handle them. markopolos said becker became angry after he mentioned another case in which he claimed becker had a conflict of interest. becker, 63, is expected to leave the regulator and return to the private sector at the end of the month. his decision is unrelated to the madoff lawsuit. "he was not involved in his parents' financial affairs, and has no recollections of his parents' investment with madoff prior to his mother's death and the subsequent liquidation of the account," said john nester, an sec spokesman. last december picard filed a flurry of lawsuits to recover assets for investors. the becker suit is one of several aimed at recovering money from investors who allegedly received false profits from the ponzi scheme.
stock markets have been slow to react to oil price danger stock markets also lost some of their previously nerveless poise. the ftse 100 index may have fallen only 86 points in two days but the decline would have been greater without some bullish-looking data on us consumer confidence. but, by afternoon trading in new york, even us investors had started to wonder whether local consumers would remain so confident if another oil spike lies around the corner. until now, stock market bulls have put their faith in central bankers' soothing medicine of cheap money. their argument has run like this: shares look like the best asset in town (or the least ugly) when interest rates are low, the global economy is recovering steadily and a couple of years of mild inflation, especially in the east, lie in prospect. the time to worry, they argue, will arrive only when interest rates are cranked up aggressively, thereby forcing western consumers and governments to confront their debt problems and the residents of shanghai and beijing to question the value of their houses and flats. that moment, the bulls contend, could still be a couple of years away, and, since there's no point accepting the current miserable-looking yields on government debt, shares are the place to be. this bullish thesis survived (albeit not without a few hiccups) last year's debt crisis in the eurozone – but an oil shock might represent a much more severe test. as the iea puts it, the global economic recovery is "very fragile – especially in oecd countries". how high would the price of oil have to go before it threatened a double-dip recession? that's anybody's guess. it is more useful to ask what, other than shrinking demand, could bring the oil price down. increased supply is the usual answer but suddenly the political stability of the members of opec – and not just libya, the ninth largest producer within the cartel – is being questioned. it is always dangerous to call a turn in the markets. but it has been hard to understand why investors have been so sanguine about oil at $100-plus a barrel. we shall see, but the mood now seems to be shifting.
new york stock exchange owner merges with deutsche börse nyse euronext, owner of the wall street exchange, has merged with germany's deutsche börse in a deal that creates the world's biggest stock exchange. the company will be 60% owned by deutsche börse and include the new york stock exchange, frankfurt stock exchange and london's liffe futures exchange. it will have a combined revenue of $5.4bn (£3.3bn). the merger has caused concern on both sides of the atlantic. charles schumer, a senior democrat and a member of the senate banking committee, has said the new company would have to put the nyse name first if it wanted his support through the regulatory process. "some may say: 'what's in a name?' but i say: 'a lot.' the new york stock exchange is a symbol of national prestige, and its brand must not suffer under this merger," he said. in germany johannes witt, an employee representative on the börse's supervisory board, said jobs in his country were under threat. "it will be a matter of time before the americans take control. we should be wary of this," he said. as well as regulatory scrutiny, the deal requires approval from a majority of nyse euronext shareholders and 75% of deutsche börse investors. the companies did not say what the name of the new entity would be when announcing the details of their merger. speaking on cable news channel cnbc, nyse euronext chief executive duncan niederauer said the name would not be db-nyse, as had been speculated. "it won't be announced today, it's still under discussion," he said. the exchange groups expect to save $400m because of synergies from the deal as well as exploiting "substantial opportunities for incremental revenues". niederauer, a former goldman sachs partner, will be chief executive of the new company, while deutsche börse chief reto francioni will be chairman. francioni said: "this transaction brings together two of the most respected and successful exchange operators in the world to lead the way in global capital markets and set the standard for growth, quality and market reach. the combination makes sense for all of our constituencies." the tie-up comes amid a major shakeup in the world's exchanges. technology is driving down the cost of accessing markets across the world and has led to the rise of multiple new trading platforms. the big players are looking to shore up their positions through consolidation. the london stock exchange and the operator of the toronto stock exchange, are also planning a merger. while the singapore exchange is negotiating a tie-up with australian exchange asx. speculation has mounted of a potential counterbid for nyse by the chicago-based exchange group cme. the future of nasdaq omx, which lists the shares of hi-tech companies including apple, amazon, intel and microsoft, is also under scrutiny. on monday adena friedman, chief financial officer, resigned abruptly amid speculation the exchange may also be a merger target.
williams needs extra gear to benefit from flotation "it's the first serious [stock market] venture into formula one," says williams, a familiar figure on the circuit who has used a wheelchair since suffering a spinal injury in a 1986 car accident. "formula one is very well managed. most of the teams are very professionally run businesses." therein lies the oddity of williams as a business. every team on the circuit depends on a web of complex commercial ties with ecclestone's formula one empire, which earns up to $1.5bn a year in broadcasting fees and sponsorship deals. the cash gets distributed in prize money under a private contract called the concorde agreement – which can't be made public. that lack of disclosure is one of the reasons williams, which is based in oxfordshire and has 470 employees, is floating on the german equivalent of aim, rather than on the london stock exchange. claudio steffenoni, head of corporate finance at switzerland's bank am bellevue, co-ordinating the flotation, says this money is what makes williams different from the myriad of football teams which have found the stock market a tough crowd: "it's a completely different business model from a football club. they receive a regular revenue stream from formula one which is growing at 9 or 10% per year." williams' share of prize money, though, is obviously dependent on its performance. a far cry from its 1980s and 90s peaks with alan jones, keke rosberg, nelson piquet, nigel mansell, alain prost, damon hill and jacques villeneuve, the team finished seventh among constructors in 2009, and sixth last year. on the commercial front, too, williams's recent history is patchy. the team's prospectus makes much of its flywheel accumulator fuel efficiency technology and its driver training – used by sainsbury's delivery fleet. but its profits slumped from £6.6m to £3.7m in the first 10 months of 2010, partly due to the loss of a lucrative sponsorship and engine-supply deal with toyota. then there's the thorny issue of succession – williams' co-founder and engineering boss, patrick head, is selling shares worth €51m in the flotation and intends to retire, depriving the team of a key figure. sir frank, 69, is cutting his stake from 56.7% to 50.3% and hints that his active involvement is on the wane. analysts at bank am bellevue forecast a profit of £4.9m for the calendar year 2010, followed by £10m for 2011 and £14m in 2012 – assuming a consistent sixth place in the constructors' championship. not a foregone conclusion, admits sir frank: "talk's easy. the only proof of the pudding is how good your racing car is. if you've got a top car, drivers will want to get in it." so will barrichello and his team mate, pastor maldonado, be buying shares in their employer? not likely, says sir frank: "drivers never spend any money on anything."
yellow flag for f1's williams flotation all of williams's championships were won between 1980 and 1997 and it has not won a race since 2004. the flotation prospectus trumpets that williams has only finished below the top five in the f1 constructors' championship in seven of the 33 years in which it has competed. however three of these occasions were in the past three years. as its performance spluttered on the track, its sponsorship revenues went into reverse. in the 13 months to 31 december 2009, the team's turnover fell 13.8% to £108.3m as it lost sponsorship from several brands owing to the bankruptcy of the icelandic conglomerate baugur. williams's after-tax profits plummeted 50% to £9.2m and it came a dismal seventh in the championship. about 40% of the team's revenue comes from prize money so although race performance is unpredictable, it is crucial to the team's finances. it finished 2010 one place higher in the standings than the previous year but this did not put the brakes on its falling profits. the loss of yet another sponsorship contract, this time with toyota, drove a 14.9% fall in turnover during the 10 months to the end of october 2010. it led to the company's after-tax profit falling 41% to £3.9m and over the past five years it has made total net losses of £5.9m. and it may not yet be over the worst of it. according to f1's industry monitor formula money, since the end of last season williams has lost 43% of its sponsorship income. it has lost an estimated £21m from six brands including the german insurer allianz, a sponsor of williams since 2001, and the state-owned royal bank of scotland, which alone was paying £12m to the team annually. this year williams has dropped the highly rated german driver nico hulkenberg in favour of the venezuelan pastor maldonado, who brings with him an estimated £9m of sponsorship from local businesses including the oil company petróleos de venezuela. it takes the team's sponsorship tally to £27m and with only five weeks before the start of the season it is running out of time to do more deals . according to the prospectus, the team's income from prize money and its three largest sponsorship agreements "represent between 80% and 90% of the group's contracted income". however, there are no details in the prospectus of how much revenue each of these contracts brings in. williams will not be floating on the main frankfurt market but on the "entry standard", an unregulated segment that lacks the stringent transparency requirements of many european exchanges that would force the team to disclose the value of its sponsorship deals. this could be a big blow to the team as head has been integral to it from the beginning. it may also concern investors that the flotation will in effect be used to contribute a retirement fund for head. a spokesman for williams said: "williams is currently in a strong financial position: we have been profitable the past three years, we have solid cash reserves and our 2011 budget is already contracted. we don't need new funds. therefore investors are simply buying equity from existing shareholders – there is nothing unusual in this. both patrick and sir frank remain shareholders in the business and therefore their interests are aligned with any new shareholder."
stock exchange merger frenzy shocks markets the proposed german-us deal will create the world's second most valuable stock exchange group with a combined worth of about $24bn (£15bn), as well as the largest operator by revenues and profits. by contrast, the combined market capitalisation of lse and tmx is $6.9bn. andrew mitchell, an analyst with charles stanley securities, predicted the deals signalled a new wave of consolidation in the sector. he described the deutsche/nyse tie-up as "a much more substantial beast," and added: "the consensus is that we will end up with a handful of global exchanges." wall street sources said they had been expecting a move by the lse, but were surprised that deutsche börse and nyse euronext had decided to join the merger fray. "everyone's been expecting some consolidation. lse had to make a move and this seems like a decent one," said one source close to the exchanges. "but it's hard to see what triggered nyse and deutsche – it seems very reactive. they may have difficulty getting that passed by european regulators." deutsche börse shareholders will hold around 60% of the enlarged group, with their nyse euronext counterparts left with the remainder, assuming the deal goes through. the combined group would have dual headquarters in new york and frankfurt with deutsche börse's chief executive, reto francioni, becoming chairman, while nyse euronext boss duncan niederauer is likely to be the new company's chief executive. similarly, the tie-up between lse and tmx – whose shareholders will own 55% and 45% of their new entity respectively – will also result in joint headquarters and a 15-person board split eight-seven in favour of lse executives. some market watchers suggested the rather awkward structure, as well as the companies' frequent insistence that the deal was a "merger of equals", was an early effort to appease canada's notoriously tricky regulators. in ottawa, tony clement, canada's minister for industry, who blocked last year's proposed takeover of canadian fertiliser group potash corp by mining group bhp billiton, said: "my officials will be reviewing the situation. they will in turn brief me as to whether they feel this is reviewable under the investment canada act and at that time i will make that situation public." irrespective of how each deal plays out, it now seems certain that the stock exchange sector has re-entered one of its frequent periods of merger speculation. phil dobbin, an analyst at brokers shore capital, said: "the whole sector is fragmented globally. this is not the end of the process. the lse has been targeted previously. now it is a participator." others suggested that the next targets would be in asia, where the bombay stock exchange, the venue of the second highest number of listings after the lse, and the korea exchange, the number two in small business listings, are obvious targets. however, the sector has suffered from a mixed record in consummating tie-ups. previous talks between deutsche börse and nyse euronext over a merger failed in 2008, partly on concerns over possible resistance from us authorities to a takeover of nyse. meanwhile, at various times in the past decade, the lse has been seen a potential partner for both deutsche börse and euronext, while four years ago us technology-focused exchange nasdaq unsuccessfully pursued its london rival. the rationale for such mergers centres around exchanges being able to offer products and services to a wider pool of customers, as well as saving costs. the lse and tmx tie-up, which would create a platform with the world's largest number of mining company listings at a time of surging commodity prices, predicts it will increase revenues by £35m in its third year, growing to £100m by year five. cost savings are hoped to total £35m by the end of the second year of the enlarged company's existence. deutsche and nyse also expect to make around €300m (£255m) of cost savings if their deal goes through.
lse's bizarre plotline even in the lse's wacky history of deals and non-deals, this plotline is bizarre. deutsche and nyse may struggle to get clearance for their deal from european regulators but their move has thrown a large spanner in the works for the lse and tmx. shareholders in both companies will rethink. rather than merging, would it be better to wait until the tide of consolidation produces a takeover bid at a (hopefully) fat premium?
williams f1 team founders to share £59m flotation windfall although it has failed to win a grand prix since juan pablo montoya's victory in brazil seven years ago, the team produced a pre-tax profit of £8.9m in 2009 and £9.2m in 2008. but the prospectus reveals that the team's financial position deteriorated sharply last year. revenue slumped by 15% in the first 10 months of 2010 to £74.2m and profits dropped 44% to £3.7m, blamed on a loss of sponsorship income following the termination of an engine supply deal with toyota. williams, 69, one of formula one's best-known figures, is offloading 640,000 shares in the flotation which will make him up to €18m, although he will keep control of the business by hanging onto a majority stake of 50.3%. "i've never taken any money out before," he said. "the amount of shares i'm selling have not rocked the business." patrick head, who co-founded the team with williams in 1977 and remains director of engineering, is selling a larger chunk of 1.77m shares, generating €51m. the proportion of shares available to the public will be 27.4%. in an attempt to lure money from motor-racing enthusiasts, the company is offering vip membership of a "williams owners' club" to investors who buy more than 1%, giving them hospitality in the team paddock, access to garages at races and tests and an annual dinner with sir frank williams, directors and drivers. williams opted to float in germany to avoid regulations in london that would have required the disclosure of details of the team's television fees, prize money and commercial arrangements with bernie ecclestone's formula one empire. the williams team's assets include land and buildings worth £21.8m. but a fleet of 117 historic racing cars is not included on the balance sheet – because they are not held for eventual resale and are not considered "revenue generative". williams's long-term strategy is to commercialise its racing technology in fuel efficiency and driver training for use in everyday motoring. the flotation raises no new capital for williams but is intended to provide a long-term ownership structure and to create shares to incentivise future management. williams said it marked "a new era" in the team's history: "our future as an independent constructor is sustained by this listing, providing us the base from which to grow."
tmx-lse merger: a timeline of takeover battles the lse and germany's deutsche börse unveil plans to merge, after euronext is set up by paris, amsterdam and brussels. nyse bids $8bn for euronext, eclipsing a rival bid by deutsche börse, which then makes a counter offer valuing the european bourses at $11bn. nasdaq raises its lse stake to 28.75% and makes a £2.7bn hostile offer. an $11bn deal between nyse and euronext is approved after deutsche drops out of the bidding. nasdaq defeated, winning just 0.41% of acceptances from lse shareholders. the lse seals a £1.1bn deal to buy the italian exchange borsa italiana.
is china an investment opportunity or heading for crisis? the key question for the new year is whether the government can calm the economy down gradually without jeopardising its long-term growth. china and other emerging markets have become the destination of choice for investors seeking decent returns as western markets labour under the twin burdens of sluggish growth and record low interest rates. the growing concern about the economy overheating meant the performance of the chinese stockmarket was disappointing last year, despite the huge amount of investor interest. ehrmann thinks that as inflation and growth moderate share prices could start to rise again. but while bolton and ehrmann say they are still finding good investment opportunities, the list of those warning the bubble will burst is lengthening.
world stock markets fall on egypt turmoil in london, the ftse fell by 37 points to 0.6% to 5843 this morning, a seven-week low. international airlines group, formed by the merger of british airways and iberia, fell by nearly 4%, and holiday firms including tui travel and thomas cook also dropped. the japanese stock market had earlier fallen by 1.18% to close at its lowest level in a month. there were also losses in hong kong and south korea as the prospect of widespread disruption hit the markets. gary jenkins, head of fixed income research at evolution securities, believes the middle east has now replaced the eurozone debt crisis as the primary concern in investors' minds. middle eastern stock markets had already registered hefty falls when they traded yesterday. the dubai financial market dropped by more than 4%, led by property companies and the port operator dubai world. ben potter, research analyst at ig markets, predicted that the current geopolitical uncertainties could send shares lower in the days ahead. the dow jones index had fallen 1.4% on friday, with the nasdaq down by almost 2.5%. energy experts have argued that there is little chance of disruption to the crucial waterway linking the red sea and the mediterranean. it is reportedly secured by armed guards – but this has not eliminated concerns over the region. "we cannot ignore the possibility that the chaos will spill over from egypt into oil-producing nations," kenji sekiguchi of mitsubishi ufj asset management told bloomberg.
'evil knievil' cawkwell sues stockbroker over 'lost' short-selling profits by simon bowers claiming the credit crunch had triggered huge gains on his short positions in several businesses, cawkwell said at the time: "it has proved a ripe old harvest." northern rock was nationalised days later. however, cawkwell's windfall might not be as large as he had hoped. direct sharedeal limited (dsl) has vowed to defend itself against the claim. cawkwell says he has been unable to verify his dsl account details, which he believes should show gains from more than £660,000 of short bets on northern rock made between october 2007 and the end of january 2008. when shares are delisted from the stock market it is difficult for traders who have taken a "short" bet – that shares will decline in value – to complete the transaction. determining the final value of delisted shares can take a long time and closing out short positions can be troublesome. there is no suggestion dsl's attitude to cawkwell's claim is influenced by its own financial concerns. cawkwell made his name short-selling maxwell communications and polly peck international. he has resorted to the courts, he says, after fruitless attempts to seek assurance that proceeds he believes will be due to him from the northern rock short trade – and from a separate £111,000 short trade in eurotunnel – are securely ring-fenced within dsl. a dsl spokesman said: "we will be defending the claim but have no further comment."
linkedin ipo starts social networking goldrush linkedin has fired the starting pistol on what is expected to be a race to market by social networking websites this year, as the contact-building service announced an initial public offering in new york which could value the business at up to $3bn (£1.9bn). the flotation, expected to value founder reid hoffman's $21.4% stake at up to $642m, is thought likely to happen within the next few months and will involve the sale of at least $175m of new shares as well as the disposal of some existing stock by linkedin's current investors. josh bernoff, senior vice-president of forrester research, in cambridge, massachusetts, said: "if the linkedin ipo goes well there will be a flurry of other social networking ipos. this will be the first time we'll get a real look at the economics of a social network. it will set the standard for how social networks like facebook will be evaluated by public markets." while linkedin could not compete with facebook in terms of the number of users – and the frequency with which they use that service – the company might find it easier to "monetise" its offering, maher said. many linkedin users had large disposable incomes to start with and may be more prepared to pay for a service that could financially reward them with a higher-paying job or lucrative business contract, in turn making the site attractive to advertisers, maher said. linkedin inched into profit in the first nine months of 2010, recording a $10m surplus, as revenues more than doubled to $161.4m. it offers a free service allowing members to create personal profiles emphasising their business qualifications, but makes its money through a premium subscription service, costing up to £63 a month, which gives members a greater level of contact with potential business contacts and employers and offers up its database to help users locate the people they need.
goldman sachs partners couldn't lose with 'windfall' stock options the story unleashed a firestorm of comments of two kinds: those who said that this was exactly how compensation was supposed to work, and those who said that this was an example of everything that was wrong with today's compensation practices. and both sides have a point. at the same time, there is something flat-out insane about the scale of the compensation. the option grant was 7% of the shares outstanding at the time, meaning that goldman gave a sizable chunk of the firm to partners, thereby taking it away from shareholders. even at the time, the options had a fair value of $500m, and since options don't carry any downside risk, goldman's partners couldn't lose money. and as it turned out, they made an immense sum in a shockingly short period of time: those who got the options have a pre-tax gain, on paper, of more than $3bn. in a mere two years. the amount of money that goldman's partners have taken out of the firm is also staggering. in the 12 years since goldman's 1998 ipo, the new york times calculated that goldman's almost 860 current and former partners have cashed out more than $20bn in goldman stock. (that's in addition to their annual salaries and cash bonuses.) the firm's current ceo, lloyd blankfein, has sold almost $100m worth of stock. in another three years, the partners will be able to start selling the options from the december 2008 grant. there are two ways in which this works against that core principle of aligning employees with shareholders. one is that even if those 860 people still have more than $10bn in the firm, and even if blankfein's current stake is more than $300m, how much does that matter given the scale of what's been taken out? if you gave me $100m, and promised me another $50m contingent on my good behaviour, am i really incentivised to behave responsibly, or to take a big bet, when the first $100m is already in my pocket? compounding this is the incredibly short lifespan of a goldman career. it may be that most of the people who have cashed out their goldman shares are former partners, while current partners still have the majority of their money in the firm. but the new york times also reported that goldman partners last, on average, a mere seven years, meaning even if the people getting big sums today haven't cashed out much yet, they'll be gone and cashed out tomorrow. goldman's mantra used to be long-term greedy. but it's not human nature to think in terms of decades if your own time at the top of the firm doesn't even last one decade. the real point, though, may be that any ranting and raving we all might want to do about this is a waste of time. the only ones who can protest in a meaningful way are those who, it is now clear, are goldman's second class partners: its shareholders.
williams formula one firm considers stock market listing "it would create a basis for future transactions," he said. "it's about succession planning and future proofing." the 68-year-old williams was in "very very good health", and retirement "is not anywhere near his agenda," parr added. the williams formula one team was founded in 1977 and dominated the sport for two decades, with drivers such as britain's nigel mansell, damon hill and jenson button. it has had a patchy record in recent years, however, and has not won a championship since 1997 and its last grand prix win was in 2004. details of the formula one team's lucrative sponsorship and commercial partnerships, which provide the bulk of its revenue, would be kept confidential, parr said. a public ownership structure was the most "logical" for the business, he added, allowing it to remain independent. williams had had a number of takeover approaches recently, including from the german car manufacturer bmw and the "odd oligarch", he added. "we are constantly being approached [by people]. most of these people want control. our sense is that it's not available. frank wants to remain in control of the team." frank williams said: "for some years i've been considering how to secure the long-term future of williams. i've concluded the option that will best achieve this is to broaden our shareholder base with public investors. "patrick, toto [wolff, a fellow shareholder] and i are therefore examining this option closely and if the environment is propitious, we may well act in the near future. "whatever action we take, i shall remain the majority shareholder and team principal."
japan crisis sees yen hit record high against dollar in what dealers described as "white-knuckle" trading on the foreign exchange markets, the yen rocketed to a record high against the dollar on the back of expectations that japanese investors will have to repatriate cash to cover the costs of the disaster. a breakdown of the atm system at japan's second largest bank added to the sense of panic in tokyo, where millions have been stocking up on essential supplies and staying indoors to avoid exposure to radiation. for two hours, thousands of cash machines at mizuho bank failed to operate, a breakdown attributed by the bank to a concentration of transactions at a number of branches. japan's trade minister has warned of large-scale blackouts in tokyo if there is high power demand, while foreign nationals are being urged to leave the country amid fears over the nuclear situation. the yen reached ¥76.25 against the dollar at one stage, later falling back to ¥79, as the market panic caused by the crisis shifted from the stock markets to foreign exchange. japan's finance minister has blamed speculation for the spike in the yen, raising expectations that the government will intervene in the markets to weaken the currency. g7 finance ministers are to discuss the escalating crisis at a teleconference on friday morning. a number of factors are behind the currency surge. speculators expect that, to cover losses from the earthquake and tsunami, japanese companies and investors will have to sell foreign assets or bring back cash from abroad, raising demand for yen and lowering demand for other currencies. some foreign investors were also said to be buying yen to meet margin calls on bets on japanese shares, which have plummeted in recent days. the nikkei 225 index finished thursday 1.4% lower, losing 131 points to 8,962. the index fell as low as 8,639 at one stage, a drop of almost 5%, before recovering losses towards the end of trading. carmaker toyota fell 2.2% on thursday as the group extended the suspension of production at its 12 main assembley plants in japan through to next week. the power company behind the fukushima nuclear plant on the verge of meltdown, tokyo electric power company, has seen its shares lose more than 60% of their value since the tsunami hit last week. the stock was trading at ¥2,131 on friday, finishing a further 13% down today at 798. the bank of japan today offered to inject a further ¥6 trillion (£47bn) into the banking system to calm the markets, on top of the ¥28tn already offered this week.
japan earthquake may push up price of electronic goods there are already signs of an increase in the price of memory chips and display panels for computers and game consoles due to problems at japanese factories. "while there are few reports of actual damage at electronic production facilities, impacts on the transportation and power infrastructure will result in disruption of supply, resulting in rising prices. components impacted will include nand flash memory, dram, microcontrollers … and lcds," said analysts in a report for market research firm ihs isuppli. a growing group of electronics, steel and car manufacturers inside japan have suspended operations, creating the prospect of shortages of their products in britain, europe and further afield. japanese electronics are in particular demand for televisions and audio equipment, but also as components in solar panels, computers and even vehicles. japan is the world's biggest supplier of silicon used to make semiconductor chips. nec, panasonic and fujitsu are among the companies that have halted production and have reported damage to some of their factories. sony has suspended production at seven plants and analysts say this will have an impact on lithium ion batteries and dvds. texas instruments, the us chipmaker, said there had been substantial problems caused by the tremors at its manufacturing sites in japan – including the miho and aizuwakamatsu plants north of tokyo. chipmaking is particularly vulnerable to damage by earthquakes because it is generally very sensitive to vibration, dust and interruption in power levels. toyota, the world's biggest carmaker, has extended its japanese factory closures until at least 22 march and has been unwilling to set a date on when they will reopen. the company has also halted overtime working at its burnaston factory near derby, home to a range of cars such as the auris and an exporter of vehicles to europe. the japanese car makers have specialised in "just-in-time" manufacturing under which supplies are kept to a minimum. toyota said it could run burnaston for at least six weeks without new deliveries of parts. japanese exporters are battling a series of obstacles including power shortages and damage to transport infrastructure. at least six international ports in the north of the country have been badly damaged, although the large container ports south of tokyo are working relatively normally. japan's benchmark nikkei 225 stock average closed up 5.7% at 9,093.72 as investors snapped up bargains after panic selling sent the index plunging nearly 11% the day before. another huge monetary injection from the bank of japan to a total of almost $700bn (£606bn) in short-term loans and an indication from the government that it could buy into the stock market also helped shore up the nikkei. on tuesday, the index closed at its lowest level in two years after shedding 16% over two days, its biggest two-day retreat in 40 years. toyota saw its shares rise over 9%, sony almost the same amount while heavy industry shares such as kobe steel soared 15% and nishimatsu construction 6% on thoughts of reconstruction.
nikkei rallies 5.68% as japanese stocks rebound however the index has still fallen around 12% since friday morning. josh raymond of city index warned that today's gains could be a classic "dead cat bounce" rather than a genuine revival in confidence. investors are braced for further market turmoil, although it appears that tuesday's heavy sell-off in asia, europe and the us will not be repeated today. "we're currently looking at relatively flat starts in much of europe and the us although the dax seems likely to come under pressure yet again as the index's exposure to nuclear power and the country's historically high levels of trade with japan are two factors that will continue to unnerve investors," said peter stanhope, institutional trader at ig markets. "the sell-off is however presenting some solid buying opportunities for the longer term investor, although with repeated bouts of panic selling also hitting the market, the outlook remains choppy."
justice minister tries to ease anti-bribery rules   the act has been attacked by the business lobby, with the cbi director general, john cridland, calling it "not fit for purpose". in january, clarke bowed to pressure, delaying its introduction in response to pleas from what he said were "frightened" corporations seeking further guidance on how it would be implemented. britain has been promising to introduce such an act since it ratified the oecd's anti-bribery convention 13 years ago. last-minute clarifications, which could be published as early as next week, are likely to be closely scrutinised by anti-bribery campaigners, some of whom are concerned that clarke is drifting beyond his powers, using departmental guidance to recast primary legislation. attempts to exempt london-listed foreign firms with no uk corporate presence from compliance with standards on bribery prevention will be welcomed by many in the city, who believe the appeal of uk's capital markets – which have attracted scores of overseas firms in recent years – would otherwise be greatly undermined. the wording of the act makes clear that an offence of failing to prevent bribery applies to all corporate entities carrying on all or part of a business in the uk. however, draft guidance being drawn up by the ministry of justice before the act comes into force clarifies: "the government would not expect, for example, the fact that the company's securities have been admitted to the uk listing authority's official list, and therefore admitted to trading on the london stock exchange, in itself to qualify that the company is carrying on a business in the uk … for the purposes of [the act]." in recent years the london stock exchange has gone to great lengths to court overseas groups, conducting sales roadshows expounding the benefits of coming to the uk to raise equity capital. among high-profile companies listed on the stock exchange but not incorporated in the uk are the gambling groups partygaming and 888 and the insurer hiscox. these companies do however have significant operations in the uk. most of the ftse's largest mining groups also have little more than a token holding company incorporation in the uk, to accompany their london market listing. such firms include the blue-chip businesses vedanta, enrc, kazakhmys and fresnillo. it may be impossible to find a company which has a london stock market listing and no presence, even through an agent company, in the uk. though this makes it all the more puzzling why the ministry of justice is choosing to raise such a hypothetical example in its draft guidance. it will do nothing to allay fears the clarke is seeking to row back on the act. a spokesman for the ministry of justice said: "we cannot comment on unfinished draft guidance which is yet to be made public. it will be for the courts to decide in initial cases whether foreign companies which have a presence in the uk fall under the scope of the offence."
japan nuclear crisis: stocks tumble and manufacturers brace for parts shortage fears of a nuclear meltdown and concerns that disruption to japanese manufacturing could result in global shortages of electronic components sent stock markets tumbling across the world. japan's nikkei 225 index of leading shares dived by 10.6%, following a 6% decline yesterday, as the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant was rocked by a third blast. the share price decline represents the biggest two-day drop in 40 years and came despite a 21.8bn yen (£167m) cash injection by the bank of japan into the japanese economy. the ftse 100 index of britain's biggest companies tumbled by as much as 3.1% at the prospect of financial fallout, before regaining some ground to end the day 1.4% lower at 5,695.28 points. in the us, the dow jones index fell by 1.75% in afternoon trading, while germany's dax and france's cac 40 indices closed down 3.2% and 2.5% respectively. "one blast spooked the market. the second spooked it some more. but the third blast really made people wonder where this is going. is the next stage going to be a meltdown of the reactor core?" said joe nellis, a professor at cranfield school of management. "with so much uncertainty, the mood can swing wildly with any development. any sign that the situation is being brought under control, or that we are getting closer to a nuclear explosion, has a big impact on market sentiment," he added. however, should the nuclear threat be averted, "markets could bounce back very quickly," said nellis. in a sign of growing concern about the potential shortage of manufacturing parts, toyota has suspended overtime at its burnaston plant near derby. a toyota spokesman said the suspension of overtime – which ran to an hour a day when in operation – was a precaution to ensure the supply of parts was preserved, and would be reviewed day by day. unlike the company's japanese plants, which are closed until at leastthursday, the uk operation is still running and would need six weeks of disruption in japan to be affected by supply shortages. toyota's move coincided with a warning that the "earthquake and tsunami could result in significant shortages of certain electronics components, potentially causing pricing for these devices to increase dramatically", according to isuppli, the research firm. tablet computers and smartphones are among the huge number of products that could see higher prices for months to come, it said. prices for nand flash chips, essential for smartphones and tablet computers, rose a further 3% after a 20% jumped. household names such as panasonic, hitachi and toshiba have made japan a key player in electronic components, with the country supplying about a fifth of global semiconductors and 40% of flash memory chips. professor manmohan sodhi, an expert in supply chain management at cass business school in london, said it was essential to safeguard the delivery of components since even one missing part could hold up production. "each part is necessary, especially in the car industry, which requires lots of parts. if any one of them is missing, such as a screw in a brake part, it can block production," sodhi said. sodhi believes there is an even chance that at least one of the three japanese carmakers in britain – toyota, nissan and honda – will need to close its operation here because of a shortage of parts. however, any halt in production would be for only a week or two, he added. brent crude oil fell by $3.53, or 3.1%, to $110.14 a barrel on fears that demand from japan, the world's third biggest economy, would significantly decline in the short term as output fell. in the longer term, however, experts believe that the multibillion-dollar reconstruction project that will result from the disaster will given a much-needed boost to the economy. gerard lyons, chief economist at standard chartered, said: "it could go either way, but i think japan will bounce back. the japanese economy is a high-income, slow-growth economy that has been flatlining for years. like the korean war, the earthquake could transform the economy through a huge keynesian boost."
world stock markets slide on japan panic the ftse 100 fell almost 200 points, reaching 5592 at one stage. that was 183 points lower than monday's close. it ended tuesday down 80 points at 5695. germany's dax was down 4% and france's cac 40 was 3.5% lower. the dow jones slumped 290 points to 11,696 shortly after opening – a fall of 2.4%. it was later off 138 points at 11,855. luxury retailer burberry's shares fell a further 7%, while reinsurer munich re was down 1.5% and hannover re 5%. german fashion group hugo boss was down 6.5%. as japan's prime minister warned in a television interview of increasing radiation from the fukushima nuclear plant, many stocks in tokyo were untraded as the market struggled to deal with a flood of sell orders from panicked hedge fund traders. the index smashed its volume figures for a second day running, with 5.77bn shares traded on tuesday, a 20% increase from the record set on monday. stock markets in asia followed the nikkei down, with the hang seng index falling 3% and the korea composite index down by 2.8%. major commodities fell too. oil was down as much as 2.2%, with brent crude for april delivery falling below $112. gold, while often a safe-haven in troubled times, fell $10.7 an ounce, more than 1%, as speculators sold the precious metal to cover losses elsewhere. official japanese efforts to calm the market seem to have failed, with the japanese prime minister naoto kan talking of the increasing radiation threat. "there has been a fire at the number 4 reactor and radiation levels in the surrounding area have heightened significantly. the possibility of further radioactive leakage is heightening," he said in a tv interview. economics minister kaoru yosano said that it was important to keep the tokyo markets open despite the sell-offs, fearing a closure would have a major international impact.
former gartmore star guillaume rambourg cleared by fsa the financial services authority has cleared guillaume rambourg of any wrongdoing almost a year to the day after the former star manager was suspended by gartmore on suspicion of breaching internal rules. rambourg, whose suspension on march 30 last year sparked a terminal decline in the business, announced personally that the city regulator had shut the investigation. "i'm pleased that the fsa investigation resulted in no formal action and that i can now put the events of the past year behind me," rambourg said. "i look forward to embarking on the next chapter of my career in fund management and i will be considering a number of potential plans in that regard." he was suspended after trades he had executed appeared to breach the company's in-house policies about which brokers should handle the trades. gartmore referred the matter to the fsa, then launched its own investigation, which concluded last april that there was "no suggestion of dishonestly or a lock of integrity". gartmore found that rambourg had breached internal policies and that in the 12-month period it analysed some 5% of trades had been directed to brokers wrongly. the fsa's investigation lasted longer, however. the regulator would not comment. it only confirms regulatory actions have taken place when it decides to fine or reprimand an individual. rambourg had worked closely with roger guy and co-managed gartmore's flagship £3.5bn european large cap fund.
punch taverns considers breaking up firm to tackle £3bn debt   punch taverns, britain's largest pub company, will this week unveil radical proposals to tackle its £3bn debt burden after the shares slumped from 1,150p in 2007 to 68p amid fears of a default. last year punch lost £160m. ian dyson, the chief executive, has been studying a number of options including breaking up the company by forming a new firm that would be separately listed on the stock market, consisting of punch's better performing managed pubs that include chef & brewer. the rump group would take in the heavily indebted 6,000-strong tenanted pub estate, which would shrink via the sale of hundreds of poorly performing outlets. bonds have been issued against the tenanted pubs so holders of the debt would share in the upside as borrowings are reduced via disposals and closures. the move would depend on bondholders agreeing to a debt restructuring scheme to allow dyson a free hand to shake up the balance sheet. it is uncertain whether dyson has secured their agreement. punch has been looking at two other options: selling about a quarter of the tenanted pub estate, the equivalent of 1,000 outlets, or simply handing the keys of most of the tenanted estate to bondholders, by defaulting on loans that have been securitised against 5,300 pubs. that would leave dyson with around 700 tenanted pubs and 800 of the more profitable, directly managed pubs. bondholders who acquired the debt are understood to have lined up potential buyers in case dyson goes for the "nuclear option" and hands them the keys. sources say private equity groups and trade buyers have been talking about a possible sale of pubs to bankers at rothschild, which is advising bondholders owed £2.6bn. punch is being advised by goldman sachs and blackstone.punch overstretched itself during the credit boom when it made a number of highly leveraged acquisitions. punch chairman, peter cawdron, who is expected to step down shortly, said recently that conditions remain challenging across the economy and "especially the pub sector," which has been hammered by the smoking ban, recession, increases in beer duties and cut-throat competition from supermarkets."
japan investors urged to sit tight and await the fight back then came the tsunami, leading to the largest sell-off in japanese equities since 1987. on the first day of trading after the disaster, the nikkei shed 6% – its biggest fall in two years – dragging the one-year and three-year returns down, greatly worrying the global investment community. the index has fallen from 10,370 to a post-disaster low of 8,233 (a drop of 20%) before rallying to – at the time of writing – 9,099 (a drop of 12%). so should investors have dumped japanese stocks and funds? and if you invested in the region, what should you do now? after the kobe earthquake of 1995, japanese equities were decimated, but there was limited lasting damage to global equities (which were broadly flat in the months following the earthquake). but the losses in japan were soon made up: the nikkei hovered around 19,700 before kobe (which struck in january 1995), plummeting to 14,517 by june that year before rising to 19,900 by december 1995. lowcock added that, on a technical basis, the japanese stock market remains cheap and investors can access large international companies at good valuations. "in the short term, gdp and industrial production will fall, but will both recover. on the information currently available, we do not believe there has been serious overall damage to the business sustainability of many japanese companies. indeed, many japanese managers have come out in support of the country's economy." paul marson, chief investment officer of lombard odier private bank, said a deterioration of the nuclear situation would lead it to review its positioning. "but if authorities manage to contain the situation, the japanese equity market would appear to be extremely cheap by historical standards," he added. in the uk, companies such as aggreko and bg have seen share price gains on the back of repairs needed to japan's ailing nuclear generators, and the country's renewed demand for liquefied petroleum gas. stockbroker td waterhouse said financial stocks were hugely popular among its customers last week. the shares of insurers such as aviva were snapped up as investors took advantage of falling prices as a result of fears that the insurance sector will be hit hard by events in japan. interactive investor (ii) said its spread betting clients were making some "classic plays amidst the panic". mike mccudden, ii's head of derivatives, said: "with danger to a nuclear power station in the news we have seen sharp downturns in the price of any company associated with this industry – from uranium miners to steam turbine component manufacturers – and an influx of investment in wind and solar and natural gas. "we have seen short-term traders trying to sniff out buying opportunities amidst the sell-off. betting against the trend is fraught with danger and further negative sentiment in the coming days could well propel the market to new lows." "upheaval in the middle east and north africa is causing uncertainty in the oil markets; the threat of nuclear catastrophe in japan is reigniting worries about nuclear sources; and the peak oil argument is gaining further momentum. these factors combine to suggest that many governments and companies will be looking for alternative energy resources and technologies to provide a reliable, long-term supply." f&c's paul niven added: "relative value in japan has never been as pronounced as it is today, and japanese equities remain a high beta play on global growth [a return mirroring that of the global growth index], which we still anticipate will be robust in 2011."
g7 agrees concerted action to tackle threat of rising yen the g7 countries have agreed to join in rare concerted intervention to restrain a runaway yen, hoping to calm global markets after a wild week of often panic selling. japan's finance minister, yoshihiko noda, said the bank of japan had begun to sell yen, and other central banks from the g7 would intervene as their markets opened. "this is the first co-ordinated intervention that we have seen since 2000 so it's going to have a very huge resonating effect on the market," said kathy lien, director of currency research at gft in new york, "because the only type of intervention that actually works is coordinated intervention and it shows the solidarity of all central banks in terms of the severity of the situation in japan." on thursday, the yen gained record strength at 76.25 to the dollar, eclipsing the previous peak of 79.75 hit in the aftermath of the kobe earthquake, and valuing the yen 7.5% higher than last friday, just before the earthquake struck. a strong yen could make it more difficult for the heavily export-dependent japanese economy to recover from the triple blow of last week's earthquake, tsunami and nuclear threat. the damage toll is already estimated at up to $200bn, with japan almost certain to slip back into recession. the rising yen and two breakdowns of the atm system at mizuho bank, thought to have been caused by a surge in withdrawals, added to the sense of panic in tokyo. the rise in the japanese currency came despite the injection of a further ¥6tn yen (£47bn) into the economy by the bank of japan, bringing the total since the disaster to ¥55.6tn, although the dollar recovered slightly to ¥79 in london on thursday. the appreciation is all the more damaging since the yen had already gained considerable ground over the past year, trading 15% higher against the dollar than 12 months ago. the expectation is that the yen will record further significant increases in the coming weeks. "this is going to be a problem for japan. the last thing it needs right now is a strong yen, given the blow it has just received," said nariman behravesh, chief economist at ihs global insight in new york. michael hewson, a currency analyst at cmc markets, added: "this terrible tragedy is making the yen stronger when the currency really needs to be weaker. japan relies heavily on its exports and if the yen continues to appreciate it will crimp its ability to make profits." the yen appreciated by 20% after the kobe earthquake in 1995 and stayed there for three months before returning to its pre-disaster level five months later. an "educated guess" suggested the currency might take a similar path this time, hewson said. the financial services authority said the exposure of uk banks to japan is about £136bn. lord turner, chairman of the city regulator, added that it was too soon to predict the scale of losses for insurers, but they were likely to be "material". the yen has soared on expectations that the crisis in japan – which has invested much of its wealth overseas in search of higher returns than its own low-growth economy can offer – would prompt a huge flow of cash back into the country. the irony is that the japanese people have inflicted much of the pain of the rising yen upon themselves. japan has legions of domestic investors who have taken advantage of the country's zero interest rate, borrowing huge amounts of yen for nothing and buying foreign currencies or bonds offering much higher rates. these investors favour high-interest rate countries such as australia, new zealand, brazil, canada, mexico and south africa, and account for about a third of the daily volume of "spot" yen trading – for immediate or near-immediate delivery. many of these japanese investors are now expected to want to hold their savings in their home currency, as is typical after a crisis. however, selling their foreign currencies and buying yen would push up the value of the japanese currency – prompting these domestic investors to sell more yen to limit their losses, driving its value up further and perpetuating the process. a large-scale "repatriation" of the overseas assets owned by japan's corporations, government and insurers is also anticipated as they sell foreign investments to get the yen required to meet insurance claims and finance the country's reconstruction. analysts said the repatriation process was yet to begin in earnest, but speculators have been driving up the price of the yen safe in the knowledge that it will not be long before it starts. the ftse 100 index ended six days of declines to finish the day 97.88 points, or 1.75%, higher at 5,696.11, amid hopes that the g7 may agree steps to calm the markets. america's dow jones index rose by 1.3% to 11,774 at the close. oil jumped by $3.38, or 3.1% a barrel, to $113.98 after a crackdown on protesters in bahrain increased concerns that unrest in the middle east could spread to saudi arabia and iran.
after the glencore $60bn float, 10 more firms you've barely heard of a quarter of the world's conventional oil reserves are controlled by saudi arabia's state-owned energy firm, which is widely considered to be the planet's most valuable company. saudi aramco can trace its origins back to 1933, when it was founded as the california arabian standard oil company. it has 55,066 employees but ran into controversy recently when wikileaks cables revealed suspicions among us diplomats in riyadh that it was exaggerating claimed reserves of as much as 716bn barrels of crude oil beneath the arabian peninsula. former shell chairman sir mark moody-stuart is a director. the least known even among the largely anonymous ranks of outsourcing companies, copenhagen-based iss cooks meals at all of the raf's british airbases, cleans branches of rbs, provides housekeeping staff for hotels and runs security at many hospitals. the firm is the fifth largest private employer in the world with 520,000 on its payroll – a workforce the size of the population of sheffield. it is owned by goldman sachs and swiss buyout firm eqt and was planning to go public on the danish stock market last month, but delayed its offering at the last minute. its chief executive, jeff gravenhorst, recently remarked: "from a brand exposure perspective, we're probably the best-kept secret around." the chemicals multinational ineos was britain's biggest private company until it shifted its domicile to the tiny swiss town of rolle to avoid tax. with annual sales of $28.4bn, the firm is best known as the part owner of scotland's grangemouth refinery (petrochina bought a 50% share last year). ineos is run by jim ratcliffe, a mancunian millionaire, who is unapologetic about quitting britain: he was furious that government ministers refused to give him a temporary break on vat payments to ease ineos through a liquidity crisis. the world's largest hedge fund, bridgewater associates manages an eye-watering $90bn of investments – a sum roughly equivalent to the gdp of morocco. based in connecticut, the fund focuses on currency speculation, trading government bonds and fixed-income debt and has achieved remarkable returns of 18% annually over a decade. it is run by ray dalio, a fan of transcendental meditation, whose published "daily observations" are keenly followed on wall street and who banned office gossip last year, introducing a "three strikes and you're out" policy for anyone caught out. a sprawling, london-based private-equity firm, permira grew out of the investment bank schroders in the 1980s and is the owner of household brand names including hugo boss clothing and birds eye foods, the aa, saga and retailer new look. it has capital of €20bn (£18bn) and is the largest private equity fund to be focused on europe. like all such buyout firms, it tends to stay well below the public radar but has 12 offices around the world and was run for a decade by damon buffini, the son of a single mother from leicester, who was a business adviser to gordon brown. now co-run by an american, tom lister, and a finn, kurt björkland. with interests ranging from fertilisers to chemicals, toilet rolls and ranching, the second largest private company in the us is run by ultra-conservative billionaire brothers david and charles koch, who are major bankrollers of the tea party movement. the kansas-based conglomerate operates key oil pipelines across north america, makes the stretchable fabric lycra, and has a handful of brands in the uk, including lotus toilet roll. it employs 70,000 people and has made $32bn of acquisitions since 2003. run by a new zealander and based in moscow, renaissance group has quietly emerged as one of the world's leading banks focused on emerging markets. it includes a consumer finance arm in russia and an investment bank, renaissance capital, with operations spanning central asia, eastern europe and pushing hard into africa. founder stephen jennings, a former economist at new zealand's treasury, jets around the world to follow the all blacks and has been dubbed the "kiwi oligarch". renaissance's finances are kept under wraps, although jennings sold a 50% stake in renaissance capital to a russian billionaire, mikhail prokhorov, for a reported $500m in 2008.
glencore: miner to major
ftse edges towards 6000 "we are seeing continual pressure on banking stocks and it's difficult for the market really to make any gains when the headlines are full of rising bond yields, downgrades to sovereign debt ratings, and the increasing likelihood of default," said angus campbell, head of sales at capital spreads.
warren buffett: the sage of omaha at bay late last year, sokol met with citigroup bankers to discuss lubrizol, an oil chemicals company, and told them berkshire might be interested. days later, sokol bought $10m-worth of lubrizol stock for his own account, a slickly timed move that increased his estimated $100m fortune by $3m when berkshire bought the firm last month. the row refused to die and berkshire conducted an internal report. it concluded sokol had misled the company and violated company policy. sokol's lawyers say their client is innocent of any wrongdoing and berkshire's mob never even contacted them before issuing the report. berkshire say sokol refused to talk to them. this one is heading for court. "at berkshire, managers can focus on running their businesses: they are not subjected to meetings at headquarters nor financing worries nor wall street harassment. they simply get a letter from me every two years (it's reproduced on pages 104-105) and call me when they wish. and their wishes do differ: there are managers to whom i have not talked in the last year, while there is one with whom i talk almost daily. our trust is in people rather than process. a 'hire well, manage little' code suits both them and me." all very well, when it works. but in this case, it didn't. illegal or not, sokol behaved in a way that chimes with today's post credit crunch image of the businessman. here's a rich man who profited from a deal only he could have done. but it's not as if dave was just some recent hire, an unknown quantity. he was yoda's luke skywalker, the hero in training, waiting to lead the fight for berkshire's shareholders and to take over from the man with the most respected reputation in american capitalism. "it takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. if you think about that, you'll do things differently."
glencore float to have backing from sovereign wealth funds glencore has lined up a number of asian sovereign wealth funds as "cornerstone investors" for its flotation on the london and hong kong stock exchanges next month, with the commodities company looking for a market price tag of up to $73bn (£44bn). city speculation suggested that china investment corporation (cic), temasek of singapore, and korea investment corporation have agreed to underpin the float by buying large tranches of shares. the identities of the sovereign investors, as well as detailed financial information about the hitherto secretive swiss-based company, will be revealed in the flotation prospectus, expected to be published next week. the prospectus, prepared by the company's financial advisers and lawyers, will reveal details of glencore's contingent liabilities, ongoing litigation and risks that could face the business in the months and years ahead. glencore's new board, with murray at the helm, is thought to have met for the first time in baar, switzerland, on wednesday and to have signed off the prospectus. analysts said that demand for glencore stock would be strong among state-owned chinese and asian institutions, which are keen to diversify out of us government debt and to secure supplies of vital raw materials. jan randolph, head of sovereign risk at ihs global insight, said: "the chinese want to lock in supply chains and reduce their exposure to the dollar. they are seeking to buy mining companies outright in brazil, australia and elsewhere. purchasing equity in glencore is another way of acquiring influence over the supply of commodities, from copper to aluminium." randolph said that, over time, chinese funds could build their stakes to between 10% and 15%, at which point they were "quite entitled to ask for board representation". he described cic as "sitting on the top of the christmas tree when it comes to investment institutions mandated by beijing to invest abroad". cic is shortly to receive another $200bn to funnel overseas, on top of the $100bn it already has in its coffers. in 2009, the chinese fund invested $800m in noble group, a singapore-listed commodity trading and shipping company that bears similarities to glencore. glencore has been dogged by controversy since it announced its plan to float two weeks ago. there was confusion after lord browne, the former bp chief, was chosen as chairman, only for him to drop out at the last minute – after his name had been leaked to sky news and the bbc – apparently because of concerns about corporate governance. the baton was then passed to simon murray, a hong kong businessman and former soldier in the french foreign legion, who sparked uproar when he said that he was reluctant to employ women in senior positions because they tended to go off on maternity leave. he later retracted his remarks after facing accusations of sexism from the business secretary, vince cable. standard life was reported as saying that the glencore board looked as if it was cobbled together at "the eleventh hour". pre-ipo research from banks such as citigroup and credit suisse has surfaced that showed glencore has been paying virtually no tax on its huge profits, thanks to an elaborate partnership structure and swiss domicile.
glencore chairman: women 'like bringing up children' more than boardroom   the proposed $60bn flotation of glencore was plunged into a sexism row after the chairman of the world's largest commodities trader claimed young women were a risk to hire because they get married and become pregnant. vince cable criticised the remarks by septuagenarian simon murray as "unbelievably primitive" and indicated that they could be used to justify any affirmative action in british boardrooms. murray, who is based in hong kong and was only appointed as chairman this month to facilitate the flotation, was forced into a humbling apology after saying that there should not be quotas for women in boardrooms. "women are quite as intelligent as men. they have a tendency not to be so involved quite often and they're not so ambitious in business as men because they've got better things to do. quite often they like bringing up their children and all sorts of other things," he said in an interview in the sunday telegraph. "all these things have unintended consequences. pregnant ladies have nine months off. do you think that means when i rush out, what i'm absolutely desperate to have is young women who are about to get married in my company, and that i really need them on board because i know they're going to get pregnant and they're going to go off for nine months?" cable told the guardian murray's comments came straight from medieval times. "these prejudices are so unbelievably primitive they belong to the middle ages. he almost single-handedly makes the case for tough action to ensure there are more women on boards and to ensure women's rights in the work place are properly entrenched," he said. lord davies, the former banker who conducted the government's review into women in boardrooms, said murray's remarks were "ill-judged" while unions were stunned by the old fashioned remarks. while davies' report stepped back from recommending quotas on women in boardrooms, he said 25% of a company's board should be female and that companies should publish "aspirational goals" in the next six months. after reading the remarks, lord davies told the guardian: "i'm very surprised by the comments. they are disappointing and i think are ill-judged and inappropriate." the head of equality and employment rights at the tuc, sarah veale, said: "we hoped old-fashioned attitudes like this had died with the last century but sadly it seems they live on. modern workplaces recognise the contribution that young women bring and have employers who see the business benefits of flexible work practices that allow both mums and dads to play an active role in raising their families. these remarks suggest this employer has some way to go." murray tried to restore his reputation by apologising for his comments. he said: "i apologise for any offence caused by my comments regarding the role of women in business reported in the sunday telegraph. i'm 100% committed to equal opportunities in the boardroom and across a company's structure, be they private or public. businesses which fail to address the under-representation of women at all levels will be at a competitive disadvantage." he also made some outspoken remarks on immigration: "i read the stories like everyone else of people who claim to be running around from some place in africa because they're being beaten up or something. we give them asylum and then it turns out be fraudulent, and then if they have been here for more than eight years we can't do anything about them so we keep them." some 485 existing employee shareholders will receive $100m (£60m) each as a result of the flotation and 65 of these are top commodity traders in line for more than $500m. although glencore was set up by the fugitive marc rich, he is no longer involved in the company. city investors who manage pension funds and investments are being asked to buy between 15% and 20% of the company through the flotation.
tesco - what the analysts say tesco's international spread has again come to the rescue as its home market struggles to come to terms with the age of austerity. the company highlighted growth in asia and europe as being particularly robust, with progress in the us beginning to gain traction. the new ceo is aiming to drive further growth, both through innovation and the release of capital for further expansion. on the downside, the uk market is looking increasingly bleak, although the company's defensive qualities should provide some support. the competitive environment remains intense, while the change of top management will take some time to establish itself. however, the business is clearly underpinned by its foreign contributions, the company is cash generative and the dividend policy is progressive. the shares have not necessarily kept pace with the positive sentiment which the market bestows on the company, having given up 8% over the last six months, during which time the wider ftse100 has added 3%. however, these numbers should give further proof that this faith is justified and the market consensus to buy shares is likely to be maintained. tesco has indicated its intention to become more competitive in general retail in the uk after what it deems to be a disappointing performance in the second half, when like-for-like sales fell by 3.3%. in relative terms, though, this wasn't that bad. tesco is a leading player in general merchandise and this performance was better than a lot of retailers. with over £5bn of sales, and space potentially increasing by 10% per annum, intensification of their offer will put more pressure on general retailers including those already having to compete harder. there appears to be more detail in the statement than expected and there are some interesting shifts in the tone. at first glance the underlying profit before tax of £3.8bn, up 12.3%, looks good but that includes property disposal profits of £427m (which were ahead of the new annual target of £250m-£350m of property profits). excluding property, the profit of £3.3bn looks a tad below par, even though forecasts have been drifting down in recent weeks. the tesco asia profit of £570m (up 30%) is strong, but uk trading profits of £2.5bn are only up 4% (up 6% adjusting for sale and leasebacks) and the most striking admission in the statement is that tesco think that's not good enough. uk like-for-like sales in fourth quarter were negative (-0.7% ex-vat, ex-petrol) and weak non-food sales get the blame. tesco have promised to improve their product range and marketing to fight back in the uk. the other highlight is the new business in the us: the loss here last year was an alarming £186m, but tesco are still promising to get this to break-even by the end of next year, which would be a remarkable turnaround, if successful. overall, the outlook statement comes across as sensible and honest. a solid set of results from phil clarke's first solo full-year results.we are forecasting £4.28bn trading profit next year, which we expect to pull back slightly in line with the recent trend in the market. we recommend to buy shares as we believe tesco is well positioned to benefit from the pick up in the global economy, though if the uk business continues to underperform this will impact sentiment. the numbers have emerged slightly below expectations, driven by the uk, which saw negative like-for-like sales growth in the fourth quarter and the us, which recorded higher losses. we see downgrades to earnings on the back of this statement, possibly by 5%. however, we believe that the important drivers for the share price over the next six months will be twofold. first, the realisation that earnings growth should accelerate from here and, second, the commitment to increase return on capital employed.
wall street shares slump as s&p downgrades us debt outlook shares fell heavily on wall street on monday after a leading ratings agency fanned fears of europe's debt crisis spreading across the atlantic by issuing a strong warning about america's failure to tackle its budget deficit. in a move seen by wall street as a "shot across the bows" of bickering politicians in washington, standard and poor's (s&p) said it was cutting the outlook on the us's long-term rating from stable to negative for the first time since the attack on pearl harbor 70 years ago. the announcement surprised the financial markets, where attention in recent months has been focused on the problems of the weaker nations of the eurozone. renewed speculation that greece will be forced to default on its debts led to a sharp sell-off in the euro, but s&p stressed that the us was not immune from the sovereign debt crisis. in new york, the dow jones industrial average ended the day down 140 points, or 1.1%, with the dollar weaker on the foreign exchanges and yields rising on us treasury bills. the ftse 100 in london was down 126 points at 5870 – a drop of more than 2% – as ongoing concerns about the eurozone's debt crisis were compounded by the setback for the world's biggest economy. george osborne, the chancellor, seized on the s&p warning as vindication for the coalition's stance towards deficit reduction. "s&p did the same to the uk before the election but revised us back to 'stable' following the spending review because we had a credible deficit plan," a senior osborne aide said on monday. he added that labour's more cautious approach to cutting the uk's deficit was "way out of step with world opinion". speculation that greece may be forced to default on its debts and a strong performance by nationalists in the finnish election opposed to supporting the bailout of portugal combined to send the london index down. the main stock markets in france and germany were also down sharply on the day. s&p said that compared with the small number of developed countries with a coveted aaa rating, the us had "very large budget deficits" which reached as high as 11% in 2009. with the political infighting between the republicans and democrats on the deficit now so bitter that there was a risk of the us government being shut down earlier this month, s&p said it had taken the decision to change its outlook because "the path to addressing these issues is not clear to us". it added: "we believe there is a material risk that us policymakers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium- and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013; if an agreement is not reached and meaningful implementation is not begun by then, this would in our view render the us fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than that of peer 'aaa' sovereigns." the white house, which last week produced proposals that would cut $4tn from the us deficit by 2022, rejected the s&p analysis. "they are saying their political judgment is that over the next two years they didn't see a political agreement" to reduce long-term deficits, austan goolsbee, chairman of the council of economic advisers, said in an interview with bloomberg television. "i don't think that the s&p's political judgment is right." while europe has decided to make a priority of deficit reduction, the us approach has until now involved running an expansionary fiscal policy in an attempt to deliver faster growth. republicans have accused the obama regime of "mortgaging the country's future", and paul ryan, the chairman of the house of representatives budget committee, has come up with a more aggressive plan that would involve deep cuts in non-defence spending. nikola swann, s&p's credit analyst, said: "we view president obama's and congressman ryan's proposals as the starting point of a process aimed at broader engagement, which could result in substantial and lasting us government fiscal consolidation. that said, we see the path to agreement as challenging because the gap between the parties remains wide. we believe there is a significant risk that congressional negotiations could result in no agreement on a medium-term fiscal strategy until after the 2012 congressional and presidential elections." ted scott, director, global strategy at f&c, said: "the markets were caught by surprise by today's announcement at a time when analysts had been downgrading growth expectations for the us, mainly as a result of poor weather in the first quarter of 2011 and higher commodity prices. "the downgrade is, however, only in the outlook and is unlikely to lead to a cut in the rating itself. indeed, it should focus the mind of the politicians of all parties to agree a credible debt reduction plan now that the clock is ticking on its debt rating."
investors buoyed by improved dividend payments uk companies returned £15bn to shareholders during the first quarter of 2011, putting investors on track to receive the highest level of dividend income since 2008, research suggested on monday. dividend payouts during the three months to the end of march were 10.3%, or £1.4bn, higher than during the same period of 2010, the fastest quarterly growth rate since the third quarter of 2008, according to capita registers. the group, which analysed data on uk dividends from exchange data international, estimates shareholders will receive a total of £64.2bn in dividend payments during the whole of 2011, 13.6% more than during the previous 12 months and the highest level since 2008. a total of 156 companies paid a dividend during the first quarter, 126 of which increased the amount they paid, or reinstated their dividend, while 10 held it level. only 40 companies reduced the amount they paid or cancelled the dividend completely. the figures contrast with those for 2009, when the majority of companies reduced the amount of cash they returned to shareholders. charles cryer, chief executive of capita registrars, said: "2011 has got off to a very strong start, and underlying dividend growth will accelerate from here. income investors are set to enjoy the best year since 2008, with an extra £7.7bn flowing from uk companies into their pockets. "even though there are still uncertainties in the wider economy, the dividend recovery is very broadly based indicating companies are much more confident in their financial position." underlying dividends rose swiftly among ftse 250 companies, with payouts increasing by 25% after one-off factors were stripped out. but payments made by ftse 100 companies actually shrunk slightly, once the international power dividend was excluded, due to the lower payout made by bp.
glencore's $60bn flotation value raises hackles in the city powerful city institutions are threatening to derail glencore's $60bn london flotation next month unless it cuts the mooted value of the company to make it more attractive to investors. the swiss-based mining and commodities trading group is bracing itself for a barrage of hostile questioning from fund managers, some of whom regard the float as little more than a way for the firm's 485 partners to cash in their paper fortunes. "we are being asked to facilitate the enrichment of existing managers, but in those circumstance, the owners can hardly argue for a fat premium," said one investor. another blue-chip investor said the planned float reminded him of the 1999 public listing of investment bank goldman sachs, which was bailed out by the us government in the financial crisis. he said: "like glencore, goldman was a partnership, but once incorporated as a public company it embarked on a path that led to phenomenal risk-taking and a near-death experience in 2008. "history shows us that partnerships behave less recklessly and perform better than when they float on the stock market." he added: "mining and commodities trading is every bit as volatile a business as investment banking." following its flotation in may, glencore's partners will be sitting on shares worth, on average, $100m each. they will be locked in for six months, but will be able to sell tranches of stock at staggered intervals over the next four-and-a-half years. partners are also promised a $1bn dividend for 2011 that is expected to be paid in cash. ivan glasenberg, glencore's chief executive, hit back at the criticism, saying: "we are all invested for the long term. no one is taking money off the table. as long as i am working for the company i will not be selling shares." but a director at a leading institution said he was 'struggling" to get to the company's mooted valuation range of between $60bn and $70bn. peter davey, a mining analyst at standard bank, said that in his opinion, the stock was not a "must have", but admitted this was "a very big ipo" and many managers would be attracted by it as long as it was competitively priced. supporters of glencore say that the listing should be viewed as the first step towards a merger with mining company xstrata, in which the swiss company has a 34% stake.
arguments against a robin hood tax are bogus few commercial transactions go untaxed. when we go shopping or buy a meal in a restaurant we pay vat. when we move house, we tip the exchequer a percentage in stamp duty. we might grumble about the level of the tax, but most people accept the principle that for shared services to be maintained, some pooling of revenue is required. most people, that is, but not speculators in the city of london. the concept is not new. towards the end of his time as prime minister, gordon brown raised the prospect of international agreement along similar lines, but his authority by then was spent. there are two main objections to the tax. first, that it is unworkable in practice. there are millions of trades every minute in global financial markets, say critics. there is no way they could all be run through government cash tills to calculate the tax bill. the second objection is that it would be counterproductive. global capital is hyper-mobile, goes this argument. trading would move to jurisdictions that do not have the new tax, thereby depriving the jurisdictions that do of valuable economic activity. the complexity argument is nonsense. share transactions are already taxed. the idea that the people whose appetite for convoluted financial instruments brought the world to the brink of bankruptcy should then reject a tax measure on grounds that it is a bit tricky to implement is laughable. the capital flight argument also evaporates under scrutiny. as long as agreement can be secured between the world's major financial centres – london, hong kong, frankfurt, paris, new york – there will be nowhere for trading to go. a few rogues might move to dodgy offshore havens, but big volume deals worth billions will prefer the security of reputable jurisdictions. besides, 0.05% is hardly an onerous charge. it would scarcely dent the successful traders' wealth, while raising billions for more deserving recipients.
glencore to break stock market record with $60bn float glencore, the mining and commodities trading group, has announced plans for london's biggest ever stock market listing with its flotation next month expected to value the group at $60bn (£37bn). it is to raise up to $11bn by selling between 15% and 20% of its equity to international investors in an flotation that has only been beaten in size in europe by deutsche telekom and enel, the italian utility. by becoming a public company, glencore's 485 partners are in line for windfalls worth an average of $100m each, although they will be locked in for up to five years. ivan glasenberg, chief executive, will emerge with a 15% stake, turning him into a multi-billionaire overnight. glasenberg indicated that glencore had earmarked a sizeable portion of the float proceeds to make international acquisitions; it plans to spend $3bn increasing its stake in kazakh gold and copper miner kazzinc from 57% to 93%. glencore was founded by commodities tycoon marc rich, who for years was wanted by us authorities for tax evasion and breaking a trading embargo against iran. rich was pardoned by president bill clinton on his last day in office and severed all ties with the company in the 1990s. glencore on thursday appointed a new chairman – simon murray, former boss of hutchison whampoa, the hong kong conglomerate that used to own orange, the mobile operator. he succeeds glencore veteran willy strothotte. glasenberg also has a reputation for being a shrewd businessman. glencore is the world's largest commodities trader, buying and selling metals such as copper and iron ore, as well as "soft commodities" such as sugar, wheat and barley. it also trades about 3% of the world's oil. it operates more than 200 ships, has extensive mining operations, owns grain export elevators in russia, has stakes in oil fields off equatorial guinea and owns 8% of oleg deripaska's rusal, the world's top aluminium producer. damien hackett at canaccord genuity said: "there are not too many people that have made money out of dealing with glasenberg and the market is going to do a deal with him." glasenberg said an ipo was the "next logical step" in the company's development: "over many decades, we have developed glencore into an unrivalled global integrated commodity producer and marketer, active in almost every bulk commodity market. it [the ipo] will provide us with the financial flexibility to capitalise upon long-term growth opportunities throughout our business and achieve further sustainable growth." five non-executive director positions were announced along with company's statement about its intention to float. one of the directors, peter coates, has previous direct links to the group. until this week he was chairman of minara resources, a nickel producer controlled by glencore. glencore has until now held on to a fiercely prized tradition of public discretion, but its may listing will propel the group and its top management into the limelight as never before. the float will yield millions in fees for the company's financial advisers: citigroup, morgan stanley, credit suisse, bank of america-merrill lynch, ubs and barclays capital. glencore's flotation – hailed by bankers as the deal of the year – comes after a flurry of 11th hour decisions to axe flotations, with moneybookers.com parent firm skrill and russian mobile phone retailer euroset pulling their listing plans at the last minute.
glencore: the story behind the $60bn float while that team will reap rich rewards, some top executives will be worth even more. it is rumoured that ivan glasenberg, chief executive, holds as much as 15% of glencore, a stake that would be worth about $9bn. the company declined to comment on specific staff. it will reveal exactly who owns the shares when it publishes its flotation prospectus later in the process. its sales operation employs more than 2,700 people worldwide in 50 offices across 40 countries, while the group's industrial operations have in excess of 54,800 people in 30 countries. still, glencore has such a history of secrecy that when it was finally persuaded to reveal a few company details on its website seven years ago, industry watchers immediately printed out every page as they were convinced the information had been published by mistake. in more private surroundings, though, glencore is less bashful. its army of traders – nomadic figures who spend much of their time visiting suppliers and customers – are not known for yelling down phones like their equity counterparts, but still have reputations for being highly aggressive and ambitious. "glencore functions because the young guys are looking up, believing that the old guys are doing well, but will soon be moving on," said a source who once worked for the company. meanwhile, glencore confidently describes itself as among "the world's largest" in areas such as the physical supply of most metals and minerals it markets, as well as crude oil, oil products and sugar. it claims to be one of the "leading exporters of grain from the european union, eastern european countries, the cis and australia". as a flotation has approached, company insiders have suggested it is merely a logistics business, although that doesn't convince everybody. one adviser to glencore said: "it is much more than a global logistics business. they are very good at logistics and charter quite a significant fleet of ocean-going vessels. but it also has numbers of field offices supplying intelligence which feeds the trading operations. it has a very comprehensive view of the commodity markets and is often seen as the seller of last resort. if anybody is going to get something for you, it's glencore, and then they can squeeze by saying, 'i know how badly you need this'." certainly a standard logistics business would not trade its cargo so actively. glencore's statement on thursday detailed how it uses "arbitrage strategies" to increase profits as "discrepancies generally arise in respect of the prices at which the commodities can be physically bought or sold in different geographic locations or time periods". this might include shipping commodities from low-cost areas of the world to places where prices are higher, blending different grades of commodity to make higher-value products, or storing them and waiting for prices to rise. the company also provides financing to producers and consumers of commodities, while the bond documents provide a snapshot of its trading: "typically 90% of its trading inventory is contractually sold at a predetermined price or hedged through futures and options transactions." meanwhile, a leaked us embassy cable from 2006, sent during a colombian industrial dispute, records that glencore was accused of "bringing in outside personnel under military escort to replace the striking workers" and that "such use of outside personnel constitutes 'strike breaking', and is not permitted under colombian law". a separate cable that year from james williard, then deputy chief of mission in honduras, records glencore as having a "spotty" record that includes "accusations of embargo busting, bribery and causing environmental damages". in response, the company denies that there was a strike at its colombian operations at that time and says that its business practices "comply with or exceed" legal requirements. it adds: "we seek to prevent misconduct through strong leadership, internal policies and procedures."
glencore: too big not to be transparent nine selected investment banks will also cash in: fees for their float advice are expected to top $400m. the float is due to raise $11bn – financial firepower to fund expansion, starting with a $2bn investment in kazakh gold and copper mine kazzinc. more will follow, and, probably, an eventual merger with ftse-100 miner xstrata, where glencore already owns 34%. glencore has signed up an impressive array of directors, led by chairman simon murray – though it was evidently considering former bp boss lord browne untilthursday. that he was even in the frame is a worry: his tenure at bp ended ignominiously and will forever be linked with safety problems that cost lives. worse, he would have been working with his bp successor, tony hayward, who has been appointed glencore's senior non-executive and whose role includes monitoring the chairman. a bad mistake has been avoided.
glencore turns hundreds of traders into multimillionaires with $60bn flotation commodities trader glencore has launched its eagerly awaited flotation which will turn hundreds of its employees into multimillionaires. simon murray, the hong kong-based businessman who has previously served on the boards of vodafone and general electric, revealed last weekend he was in the running, saying he would not be daunted by the challenge of chairing such a large company. "this is very exciting, but you are talking to someone who has been chased by a leopard," said the former french legionnaire.
the business podcast: what sir john vickers missed - how banking should be reformed presented by aditya chakrabortty and produced by phil maynard with this in mind, we've rounded up a studio full of experts to get their ideas on what should be included in the final report in september. the guardian is editorially independent.
                    and we want to keep our journalism open and accessible to all.
                    but we increasingly need our readers to fund our work.
                
deutsche börse merger with nyse euronext could lead to more tie-ups chief executive reto francioni told swiss newspaper nzz am sonntag the planned acquisition of nyse euronext could eventually include other players. he said: "the main point of the targeted fusion with nyse euronext is that each spot market remains independent. one could also include spain or switzerland." deutsche börse and nyse euronext agreed plans to create the world's largest bourse in february, a deal through which the german operator owns 60% of the group. swiss exchange six has three joint ventures with deutsche börse: index operator stoxx, derivates platform scoach and futures exchange eurex. the madrid bourse bolsas y mercados (bme.mc) is a standalone operation and boasts strong trading turnover, with 70% coming from overseas.
dawnay day tycoon guy naggar faces lawsuit over f&c bets a legal spat has broken out between the veteran stockbroker and labour party donor barry townsley and guy naggar, the fallen property and investment tycoon whose sprawling £2bn dawnay day empire collapsed dramatically in the summer of 2008. many of these ill-fated wagers on f&c were provided by a townsley-run brokerage in which dawnay day held a majority stake and whose management, led by townsley, owned the balance of shares. the lawsuit accuses naggar of acting as a shadow, or de facto director, at the brokerage, exerting control over the management of day-to-day business and using the company to pursue an f&c investment strategy for his own ends without appropriate regard to the risks. on one occasion, the claim suggests, naggar acted to shift part of the f&c bet from one company that had assets, and so could absorb potential losses, to another that was allegedly insolvent. this, townsley argues, was against the best interest of his brokerage, which would ultimately be looking to collect those losses. naggar declined to comment on specific allegations, but said: "this claim is misconceived, ill-founded and is being strenuously defended." his ambitious investment strategy for f&c, known as "project imperial", came to an abrupt end on 10 june 2008 when dawnay day companies defaulted on the f&c bet – technically made through derivative instruments known as contracts for difference, or cfds – at a loss estimated to be about £70m. the event shocked the markets as brokerage firms that had provided bets to naggar immediately rushed to sell shares in f&c, which they had accumulated in order to be able to offer the cfds in the first place. a stake representing about 20% of f&c was hurriedly sold at the distressed price of 100p a share. the move – coming only seven days after naggar had raised his interest in f&c – caused panic among investors and wiped 28% off the fund manager's share price in one trading session. on the same day, townsley agreed to buy naggar's controlling stake in the brokerage business, changing its name from dawnay day capital markets to hobart capital markets. days later he personally lent hobart £5m in order to ensure it had sufficient capital to satisfy regulators. the latest accounts for hobart state: "a provision of £6m was made in respect of cfd debtors that were due from dawnay day groups of companies for cfd margin defaults during the period. hobart has had no defaults for cfd margins from any [other] clients... the business does not expect to recover these bad debts." nevertheless, the brokerage recently filed a claim with the high court for £4.7m plus interest against naggar personally. guy naggar, a suave 70-year-old merchant banker and art collector, born in france but holding italian nationality, became one of the earliest high-profile victims of the credit crunch, together with his business partner peter klimt, when their complex web of interconnected dawnay day operations, with assets estimated to be worth up to £2bn, imploded. at its peak the sprawling empire, encompassing more than 80 companies trading under the dawnay day name, was overseen by klimt and naggar from offices near buckingham palace adorned with contemporary artworks by lucian freud, damien hirst and tracey emin. investments ranged from boutique hotels and the wolseley, a michelin-starred restaurant, to the fashion retailer austin reed and financial operations offering services as diverse as islamic banking and commodity brokering. naggar's biggest gamble, however, was dawnay day's bets on f&c asset management. barry townsley, also a contemporary art enthusiast, became a recognised figure known outside of city circles when he was embroiled in the "cash for honours" row after he agreed to lend funds to labour and gave a further donation to tony blair's city academy programme. he was nominated for a peerage in 2005, but later withdrew, blaming media attention. outside of his work at hobart, townsley is a director of a number of businesses owned by the entrepreneur richard caring, including caprice holdings, the company behind a string of london restaurants and the mayfair nightclub annabel's. in addition, he is on the board of the caring-owned company behind wentworth golf club in surrey. townsley has also been close to the mayfair investment tycoon robert tchenguiz, who was one of his largest customers before he too hit financial difficulties. in 2003 the stockbroker became embroiled in the messy failure of langbar international, a purported cash-shell company said to have $275m deposited with a brazilian bank, which his then company insinger townsley helped float on the aim junior market. it later emerged that the brazilian certificate of deposit was an elaborate fake, sparking an investigation by the serious fraud office. there is no suggestion that he knew of the forgery.
glencore poised to publish plans to become a public company   glencore is expected to fire the starting gun on its $60bn (£37bn) float this week after months of speculation that the commodities trader was close to selling part of the business. the privately owned company, which is based in baar, switzerland, will list shares in london and hong kong, handing each of its 485 traders who collectively own the firm an average windfall of $103m. according to reports this weekend, glencore will publish its formal "intention to float" on thursday and shares could begin trading next month. a spokesman for the company declined to comment. but it is thought that its partners have agreed strict "lock-in" agreements which mean they will not be able to sell their shares for several years. bankers are already considering the possibility of a merger between a newly floated glencore and xstrata. xstrata shareholders are unlikely to sanction a combination if glencore was not listed, as it would be hard to value the company. glencore's chief executive, ivan glasenburg, will gain most from the flotation, as he is thought to own about 15% of the company. he is still looking to recruit a city grandee to chair the board.
vacuum maker says markets suck as float pulled edwards group, the private equity-owned vacuum technology company, has cancelled plans for an initial public offering (ipo) in london that would have valued the group at about £1bn. the company, which makes a range of vacuum pumps, most notably those used to keep rooms dust-free in the semiconductor manufacturing process, blamed the volatile financial markets for its decision to pull the float, which would have raised up to £350m. edwards said: "although there was strong interest from institutional investors, the selling shareholders, ccmp capital and unitas international, elected not to proceed given equity market uncertainty." ccmp and unitas, both former private equity units of jp morgan, each own about 45% of edwards' shares after buying the group for £460m in 2007. the company, previously owned by industrial groups boc and linde, ditched its ipo plan after failing to attract sufficient investor demand for the company at 200p a share, the bottom of its 200-270p range, that would have valued the business at £1bn-1.5bn. edwards, which is based in crawley, west sussex, also supplies vacuum pumps that are used to remove gases and contaminants at cern's large hadron collider on the border between switzerland and france. other key customers include samsung and hitachi. the group, which employs more than 3,000 staff, was founded in 1919.
trader and lawyer arrested over '$31.6m insider trading scam' a trader accused of a $31.6m (£19.4m) insider dealing scam allegedly told his co-conspirator he should take $175,000 they had just made and "burn it in a fire", according to us federal prosecutors. us authorities have arrested garrett bauer, a trader, and matthew kluger, a lawyer, and accused them of operating a decades-long scheme to profit from inside knowledge about forthcoming mergers and acquisitions. according to new jersey's district attorney, kluger, a former employee at the law firm wilson sonsini goodrich & rosati, would search its computers for non-public information and pass it on to an unnamed middleman. it is alleged that bauer then placed trades for himself, kluger and the middleman. once the deal was announced, bauer allegedly sold the shares, keeping most of the profit for himself but passing on a portion to his co-conspirators. to evade detection, the three are alleged to have used disposable mobile phones and pay phones. according to the authorities, in march they became concerned the scheme might be uncovered and destroyed phones, computers and other records. bauer allegedly told the middleman he should burn $175,000 from a recent transaction. the authorities say the trades entailed at least nine pending mergers and acquisitions involving companies advised by wilson sonsini including adobe, 3com and mcafee. the trades generated over $31.6m. the middleman is said to have profited by $875,000 and kluger by at least $500,000. the court records give few details about the middleman, but say he is a former colleague of kluger and bauer and has known kluger since at least 1987. bauer, 43, is a self-employed broker dealer. kluger, 50, a new york university law graduate, is the president of a transportation company. kluger devised the scheme in the mid-1990s, according to the authorities, and brought in the middleman, who persuaded bauer to place the trades. the pair would allegedly meet in atlantic city, new jersey, hoping to use gambling as a cover for their trading gains.
warsaw stock exchange turns 20 with more than 400 listed firms the warsaw stock exchange celebrates its 20th anniversary next week after a year of rapid expansion that saw it ranked second only to london in terms of the number and value of flotations. the stock market, one of eastern europe's success stories, has grown rapidly, benefiting from poland's privatisation programme. hundreds of state-owned businesses have been auctioned off or floated on the stock market with hundreds more earmarked for sale, including state airline lot. it is in the middle of privatising its energy companies and aims to raise some 15bn zloty (£3.25bn) from sell-offs of state assets this year. the exchange has a market value of €142bn (£125bn) – far bigger than the much older viennese exchange (€94bn) as well as fledgling stock markets in prague, budapest and bucharest. sobolewski, who has been at the helm since 2006, feels the exchange is close to achieving its ambition of becoming a leading financial hub in eastern europe. "we want to be a regional hub, not a national stock exchange – an exchange that is very international. we're very satisfied to have a high share of foreign investors trading in warsaw." he ruled out mergers with other exchanges to gain scale, even though they're flavour of the day in western europe and the us. it started with five companies two decades ago and has grown rapidly, with more than 400 now listed on the main market, including italian bank unicredit, which has a secondary listing in warsaw. another 220 smaller firms are listed on new connect, warsaw's equivalent of london's alternative investment market. it has also added a market where corporate and municipal bonds are traded, as well as an energy market. what are the advantages of being listed in warsaw? "very often companies have better visibility if they are not listed among thousands of others on the lse or in frankfurt," said sobolewski. sobolewski shrugged off concerns the flow of floats could dry up and investment banks leave once the privatisations are over. he sees healthy demand from neighbours such as ukraine and even sweden. "the majority of state owned companies that can be on the public market have already been sold," he said. "now the main problem is to sell the very small companies, there are hundreds of them. maybe we'll co-operate with the ministry of treasury."
us jobs data boosts wall street shares as ftse finishes week over 6000 news that non-farm payrolls had expanded by 216,000 last month led to a fresh wave of buying in new york and encouraged the london market to shrug off evidence that the uk's manufacturing sector had eased back in march. wall street's euphoria eased later, the dow jones index's 100-point gain pared back to 57 points by the close. marie diron, economic adviser at ernst & young, said: "the sharp fall in the manufacturing pmi is worrying. although the survey remains at relatively high levels and some correction was expected, this month's sharp decrease raises doubts about the sustainability of the recovery in the manufacturing sector. the monthly fall is within the range of monthly 'noise' for this survey and we will be waiting for confirmation (or reversal) in april to draw firmer conclusions about the outlook." in washington, official data came in better than the markets had been expecting, but in new york the rise in share prices and in the dollar eased when oil prices shot up to 30-month highs. nonetheless, all three leading us share indexes showed weekly gains for the second time in succession. dealers had been forecasting a 190,000 increase in payrolls, but the figures showed that the economy created an additional 17,000 jobs in manufacturing, 18,000 in retailing, 45,000 in education and health and 37,000 in leisure and hospitality. the unemployment rate fell for a fourth month, from 8.9% to 8.8%.
nasdaq leads $11bn counterbid in heated battle for nyse euronext nyse euronext said it would "carefully review" the offer before deciding whether to stick with deutsche börse or switch allegiances to the new suitors. the bid is substantially higher than the $9.5bn all-share deal nyse agreed with the german exchange group in february – as well as including a cash component, which may prove attractive to its shareholders. under the terms of the $42.50-a-share offer ice, the atlanta-based derivatives market, would take on nyse euronext's derivatives business, including liffe, the london international financial futures and options exchange, europe's second largest derivatives market. nasdaq omx, the new york technology bourse group, would acquire the stock exchanges in new york, paris, brussels, amsterdam and lisbon, as well as the us options business. nasdaq and ice claimed that within the next 12 to 18 months they could cut about $740m from the resulting entities' combined annual operating costs, the bulk of which they said would come from "consolidating platforms". they declined to comment on likely job losses. deutsche börse is understood to be considering its options, with analysts split on whether it would increase its previous bid or throw in the towel. the nasdaq offer is 19% higher than nyse's closing price on thursday night and 27% higher than its valuation before deutsche börse made its intentions known. karl morris, an analyst at keefe, bruyette & woods, said: "it's quite a bold move from nasdaq and ice. certainly i think the premium they're paying is quite high ... it makes you wonder what deutsche börse is going to do about this and i struggle to see how they can lift their bid to match." dick grasso, the former nyse chairman who was forced to quit in 2003 after a row about the size of his $140m pay package, saw things quite differently. "what would you pay for the mona lisa? i wouldn't look at this proposal from nasdaq to be its final bid," grasso told bloomberg tv. nasdaq's chief executive, robert greifeld, is "a very capable ceo and isn't going to put out his final offer because he knows deutsche börse is going to outbid him", grasso added. nasdaq's attempts to unseat deutsche come amid a flurry of deals as bourses attempt to cut costs and offset declining profits from equity trading with options, futures and derivatives platforms. the more companies expand through acquisition, the more they can cut costs and the greater the need for rivals to follow suit so they can continue to compete. analysts said proposal could raise questions about competition, since it would unite the two largest us exchanges. however, the deal agreed with deutsche börse is also expected to raise competition concerns since it would give the resulting entity a huge presence in some parts of european trading. robert greifeld, chief executive of nasdaq, said: " the combination of the two leading us exchanges delivers an opportunity to build a global exchange platform that has scale and growth potential to benefit investors, issuers and other market participants. we believe it would increase transparency and liquidity in us markets and create jobs as new companies raise capital." the offer consists of $14.24 a share in cash, as well as 0.4069 nasdaq omx shares and 0.1436 ice shares for every nyse euronext share.
glencore insists flotation will go ahead glencore has dismissed another sharp sell-off in the commodities market as "froth" and said that demand for its london and hong kong initial public offering remains strong. the attempt by the swiss-based commodity trading group to soothe potential shareholders came as a range of assets such as oil, silver and copper endured another volatile day on the back of worries about slowing growth in china, rising inflation and low demand in the west. but speaking to investors in hong kong via a video conference from london, ivan glasenberg, the glencore chief executive, said the decline in the value of commodities was "due to some froth" in the market and that underlying market fundamentals remained positive. he also hinted that the firm would use some of the $11bn (£6.75bn) of new money that might be raised to strengthen its position in markets such as oil and grains. "we are weak on the grains side in the united states. we do believe we do need to build infrastructure or acquire infrastructure in the united states in the grains side," he said. "on the oil side, we haven't had the financial power before to look at oil refineries because oil refineries are a bit more costly [to acquire]. those are the areas you will see future growth." industry experts believe it is a good time to buy refineries because the big western oil companies have been selling out after a long period of depressed profit margins. shell recently sold off its last british plant at stanlow in cheshire. glencore set a price range of hk$61.24 to hk$79.18 for the hong kong portion of the ipo, setting aside at least 31.25m shares for sale to retail investors in the far east from tomorrow. glencore has already set a 480p-580p per share price range for the london portion of the offering. this values it at £36.5bn ($60bn) at the mid-point, which is below the price some analysts say the company is worth, and is seen as an attempt to leave room for the stock to rise after the ipo. it also allows glencore to reduce the offer price if commodities prices continue to tumble. a final price will be set next thursday and glasenberg insisted there was "strong demand" from potential investors, amid suggestions from some quarters that he had tied up the bulk of the shares to major investors within days of the london launch. the glencore boss was asked to comment on various difficult issues that have been raised, including one in zambia, where authorities claim there may have been "irregularities" in tax submissions by its mopani copper mines business. glasenberg said this allegation was based on a misunderstanding in an early draft of the tax review. the price of some commodities have dropped by 30% over the last two weeks alone, hitting the shares of mining houses such as xstrata where glencore itself holds a stake.
commodities slump sparks stock market panic a fresh rout in the commodities market sent world stock markets falling sharply on thursday, driven by fears that the chinese economy may be losing pace. the ftse 100 index of leading shares dropped by 93 points to 5882 during a morning in which large mining companies dominated the fallers. in europe, germany's dax index lost 1.7% and the french cac was down nearly 1.6% by midday. analyst joshua raymond of city index said: "there has been a move by investors to take some cash out of commodities and resource-related equities on demand fears." yusuf heusen, senior sales trader at ig index, agreed: "investors seem happy to pull out of precious metals and hold onto cash for the time being." data released overnight showed that the output from china's industrial sector grew by less than expected in april, suggesting that the world's fastest-growing major economy is slowing down. jim o'neill, chairman of goldman sachs asset management, said the data indicated that china would grow by 8% this year, versus more than 10% in 2010. the chinese government took further steps to cool the economy, raising the amount of money that its banks must keep in reserve. this is the fifth such increase in 2011, cutting further the amount of liquidity in the economy. commodity prices have risen sharply since the global economic downturn ended, but in recent weeks analysts have been warning that the rally might have gone too far. silver has seen the strongest moves, soaring from $33 per ounce at the start of march to more than $49 per ounce at the end of april. this month, though, it has lost nearly a third of its value, hitting just $32.56 an ounce at one stage on thursday. gold prices have lost more than 5% in recent weeks, and city experts see little sign of the turbulence ending soon. "the only thing we can be certain of in silver right now is that the rollercoaster journey is going to continue for some time," said ubs analysts. commodity prices also fell because the dollar strengthened, hitting a three-week high against a basket of major currencies. this pushed copper to a five-month low. in its monthly report, the iea said: "persistently high prices at this stage of the economic cycle may ultimately sow the seeds of their own destruction." it cut its estimate for global oil demand this year, predicting that us motorists would drive less than usual in response to petrol costing nearly $4 (£2.46) per gallon. it said: "we believe gasoline demand will indeed disappoint this year – rising seasonally but declining on a yearly basis if retail prices remain at current levels." the report sent the oil price falling by more than $2 a barrel, with us crude hitting $95.5 and brent crude trading around $110.25.
glencore faces claims supplier breached environment laws glencore, the soon to be floated commodity trading firm, is facing a string of claims that it breached environmental laws at one of its significant affiliate companies. century aluminum, which is 44% owned by glencore, is being pursued by a combination of environmental agencies, local residents and other companies in eight cases that emerged in a us stock exchange filing on tuesday night. the revelations could prove embarrassing for glencore as it emerges into the public markets in a £37bn flotation this month, after enjoying years of relative obscurity operating from its swiss base. century aluminum admitted: "at this time, it is not practicable to predict the ultimate outcome of these actions or to estimate a range of possible damage awards." the century liabilities include potential fines from the us environmental protection agency which in 2009 alleged "12 violations relating to the clean air act" at century's kentucky plant, while the federal government agency has also been called in to oversee "corrective measures" after "contamination" at its west virginia facility. century also outlines claims against its subsidiary, virgin islands alumina corporation (vialco), which, along with the current owners of its old alumina refining facility at st croix, has been ordered by the epa to carry out a "recovery plan to remove and manage hydrocarbons floating on groundwater underlying the facility". meanwhile, century and vialco are among the defendants listed in a lawsuit brought by the us virgin islands' commissioner for the department of planning and natural resources, which alleges "damages to natural resources caused by releases from the alumina refinery facility at st croix". the commissioner also claims that vialco violated "territorial water pollution control laws", while 2,300 local workers, residents and property owners have filed a separate case alleging damage caused by red mud emanating from the facility. vialco sold its assets in 1995, but remains a defendant. century insists it does not "believe [the cases are] likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition". century's shares are listed on new york's nasdaq stock exchange. as well as being almost half-owned by glencore, the aluminum group is a big supplier to its major shareholder. in its flotation prospectus, glencore states that it "relies on agreements [with companies it holds shares in] to source many of its key commodities and any termination or failure to renew such contracts at the end of their terms could have an adverse effect on glencore's business". the document adds that costs "resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows", while it is "unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations". glencore published its flotation prospectus last week, which gave details of a listing that will create five billionaires among the group's management and value the business at about £37bn. the company was founded in 1974 by the controversial marc rich, who fled to switzerland when he was charged by us authorities with selling oil to iran during the 1979-81 hostage crisis, only to be eventually pardoned by bill clinton on the president's last day in the white house. glencore shed its creator in the mid-1990s before developing into the one of the world's largest, but lowest profile, companies.
linkedin ipo to value firm at $3.3bn linkedin, the social network for business professionals, will be valued at $3.3bn (£2bn) when it floats on the new york stock exchange next week, setting off a multimillion-dollar gold rush of social media companies. the nine-year-old social network plans to float on the nyse on 19 may and said it could raise as much as $274m. in january the firm said it was looking to raise $175m in the initial public offering. the firm is cashing in amid an increasingly frenzied investor appetite for the next generation of internet firms. it will become the first major us social network to go public and follows the float of renren, china's version of facebook, which saw its stock soar 40% in its first day of trading on the nyse earlier this month. analysts said linkedin's flotation would be seen as the first real indicator of investor appetite for us social media firms. colin gillis, internet analyst at bgc partner in new york, said: "renren had everything – it's chinese and it's social networking. linkedin is going to be the first real indicator of demand for the us social network firms." linkedin has about 100 million users and turned a profit of $15.4m on revenues of $243m in 2010. though other social networks are far larger, notably facebook with about 700 million users worldwide, the business orientation of linkedin's members make them potentially more valuable to advertisers. the company managed to grow through the recession and turned profitable last year having made operating losses from 2007 until 2009. at $3.3bn, linkedin would be priced at 13 times last year's revenues of $243m – a lower multiple than its peers. facebook has a multiple of 32 times its estimated 2010 sales, according to nyppex, a private-share market. the company will offer 7.8m shares at $32-$35 each – the top of its previously expected price range. it said it intends to use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, including working capital, sales and marketing, general and administrative matters and capital expenditures. reid hoffman, co-founder and chairman, and the chief executive, jeffrey weiner, are selling a small number of shares, less than 0.5% of the company. they will join the company's other shareholders, bain capital, goldman sachs and mcgraw-hill, in selling 3m shares in the public offering. linkedin will offer a further 4.8m shares. other major investors – sequoia capital, greylock partners and bessemer venture partners, which together own about two-fifths of the company – will not be participating. unlike more mainstream advertising-supported social networks such as facebook and twitter, linkedin has a "freemium" commercial model, offering premium services to paying customers, while basic features and registration are free. according to its flotation prospectus, filed in january, revenue from paying users dropped to 27% of overall revenues for the first nine months of last year, down from 41% in the previous year. job listings and recruitment contributed 41% of net revenue in the same period, up from 29%. advertising revenue remained steady at 32%. morgan stanley, bank of america and jp morgan are linkedin's three lead advisers.
linkedin prepares for us flotation linkedin, the social network for business professionals, is to float on the new york stock exchange with an offer that could value the nine-year-old website at more than $3bn (£1.8bn). linkedin, which has about 100 million users and turned a profit of $15.4m on revenues of $243m in 2010, expects to raise about $146m with its keenly anticipated flotation later this year. the company will offer 7.8m shares priced at $32-$35 each – the top of its expected price range. reid hoffman, the co-founder and chairman of linkedin, will join the company's other shareholders, bain capital, goldman sachs and mcgraw-hill, in selling 3m shares in the public offering. linkedin will offer a further 4.8m shares. major investors sequoia capital, greylock partners and bessemer venture partners, which together own about two-fifths of the company, will not be participating in the ipo. unlike more mainstream ad-supported social networks such as facebook and twitter, linkedin has a "freemium" commercial model, offering premium services to paying customers, while basic features and registration are free. morgan stanley, bank of america and jp morgan are linkedin's three lead advisers.
prada's attempts to storm chinese market hit by feminist protesters the fashion designer and one-time women's rights campaigner miuccia prada told reporters last year that she believed feminism no longer existed. she may now be rethinking that view. attempts by prada, the fashion house founded by her grandfather and for which she is a leading designer, to court the label-hungry asian market hit a major setback when dozens of women protested at the company's flotation on the hong kong stock market, citing a dispute between the italian brand and a senior employee who claims to have been discriminated against on grounds of appearance. the dispute dates back to 2009, when retail manager rina bovrisse was dismissed by the brand. in 2010 she filed a lawsuit alleging that prada japan's ceo, davide sesia, had sacked her after she refused his instructions to fire up to 30 members of the retail team because he considered them overweight or unattractive. bovrisse also claims that sesia asked her to lose weight herself and change her hairstyle to fit in more with the brand's image. prada responded to bovrisse's claims with a vigorous denial and by filing a countersuit stating that the allegations were false. both cases are ongoing. the feminists rallied outside the tsim sha tsui branch of prada, calling on the hong kong exchange to veto the brand's initial public offering (ipo). sally choi, leader of the feminist protesters, said in a letter addressed to the hong kong stock exchange: "since the hong kong stock exchange is vested with the power to assess the suitability of potential ipos, it should also have the authority to prevent companies which are suspected of sex discrimination from filing." she has also sent a letter to patrizio bertelli, the prada ceo, who is married to miuccia prada, but so far the brand has declined to comment. they have said they will stage further protests if the exchange ignores their stance. although their position is unlikely to damage prada's current run of recordbreaking sales, it is an embarrassment for the design house at a significant time.
at glencore's pinnacle of capitalism, even hunger is a commodity according to the financial times, glencore's speculation didn't necessarily bring riches to the company. although the bets on the future price of wheat paid off, glencore is so big that other parts of the company were tripped up. its wheat customers in the middle east had contracts that needed to be fulfilled, and the company was left scrambling after its russian supplies were walled away.
glencore can only pull this off once and the company has played a cute game on pricing. it allowed the hype-merchants to talk about £40bn-plus for the shares currently in issue but announced today a more sober range of £29bn to £35bn. funds tracking the ftse 100 and all share indices, who will be obliged to buy, will feel more relaxed. so, barring a collapse in commodity prices before 24 may, the first day of trading should be a triumph – as it should be when you are shelling out £260m in fees and expenses. what comes after that? while the 1,600-page prospectus tells you everything you ever wanted to know about the geology of glencore's mines, an investment in the company's shares still feels like purchasing a ticket for a mystery tour. there are three big uncertainties. 1. how will the fabulously wealthy top employees react when they are no longer working for a partnership? or, as the fifth of the 45 risk factors detailed over 17 pages puts it: "glencore's ability to attract, retain and compensate key employees may be impacted by its transition to a public company." ivan glasenberg's commitment to glencore is assured, the chief executive has said. he has no plans to retire and has pledged not sell any of his shares, worth £5.76bn at the float price, while he is on the payroll – that's despite being permitted to sell 20% of his holding every year for the next five years. fine, but will the multimillionaires, and four other billionaires, further down the corporate ladder follow his example? will they instead be tempted to turn their paper wealth into the real thing by taking advantage of a similar opportunity to sell in stages? will they then wish to spend more time with their fortunes? in theory, they're all workaholic thirty- and fortysomethings who are devoted to trading zinc, chartering ships and prospecting mines in kazakhstan. after a while, though, the pad in palm beach and the large yacht may look more tempting – or perhaps the chance to strike out independently will appeal. the key point is that glencore's conversion to public company has increased "significantly" the value of shareholdings that were previously restricted and paid out when an individual left the partnership. this trick can only be performed once. the same jackpot will not be available to the next generation of glencore managers, who must exist on a diet of conventional bonus schemes and share option plans. there will still be big bucks to be earned but "these compensation payments may not be as effective as the opportunity to receive ownership interests in glencore that existed prior to the restructuring", the prospectus admits. there is a thin divide between cultural change and cultural upheaval. goldman sachs, after converting from partnership status, survived the process, but not without succession battles and infighting along the way. that's true in principle because xstrata's attempt to sell itself to vale of brazil in 2008 appeared to break down because glencore wanted to extend its marketing rights into the combined entity. such a clash between interests of the two companies could be avoided in future via a merger or takeover. but which? would a takeover premium be paid or not? xstrata is a £44bn company, so even a 10% premium would not be small change. many institutional shareholders will now have a foot in both camps, so may not overly exercised about the need for a proper debate about value. but xstrata's board is duty bound to fight for top dollar or defend its independence if glencore attempts a lowball offer. fireworks are possible. 3. will regulators and governments view glencore differently? they should. everybody knew glencore was big but the statistics that tumble from the prospectus are extraordinary: a 60% share of the third-party market for zinc, 50% in copper, 45% in lead, 28% in thermal coal and 9% in the politically charged arena of grains. in the lingo of bank regulators, glencore is a systemically important institution that is critical to the smooth functioning of the global economy. as with such banks, it deserves to go under the microscope, especially at a time of soaring commodity prices. it would be a new experience for the billionaires of baar – but overdue.
glencore float to make boss a £6bn fortune glencore's chief executive, ivan glasenberg, will become of europe's richest men with a paper fortune of nearly £6bn once the swiss-based commodity trading firm floats later this month. the massive listing will value the company at about £37bn – bigger than tesco and nearly twice the size of insurer prudential. the 54-year-old's 15.8% stake, which immediately places him in the top 100 of the world's billionaires, was revealed in glencore's bumper 1,566-page prospectus. the secretive trading group also revealed it will create four further paper billionaires among its staff. daniel maté, 47, and telis mistakidis, 49, the co-directors responsible for zinc, copper and lead, will be worth about £2.22bn each on the back of their 6% holdings in the new publicly listed company. tor peterson, 46, director of coal and coke, and alex beard, 43, director of crude oil and oil products, will be worth £1.97bn and £1.7bn respectively. glasenberg, the only one of the quintet of new billionaires who will sit on the board, will be subject to a five-year "staggered" lock-up, whereby he will only be allowed to sell 20% of his holding each year, although he has said that he will not sell any shares while he remains at the company. other key employees will be subject to one-, two- and four-year lock-ups, but any employee can quit during those periods without forfeiting shares. the possibility that some staff may choose to leave the firm is identified by glencore as one of the 45 risks of the flotation. the prospectus states: "an employee may leave glencore to go to a competitor, to start their own business, to retire or for other reasons", with the document adding that existing shareholders will suddenly be worth significantly higher sums. glencore insisted that it did not expect "an above-normal level of retirements" following the float. even so, to retain staff the trading group admitted that it may have to increase rewards in the future. it has set aside $210m (£126m) to keep hundreds of key employees who are not shareholders, primarily in the company's 2,700-strong marketing department. these employees cannot leave if they want to cash in, as the group has awarded them "phantom equity" which vests on or before 2013, "subject to the continued employment of the award holder". the document adds: "glencore may need to change its compensation arrangements to make them more attractive to such employees which could be at an increased cost to glencore. the loss of any senior marketer, senior manager or other key personnel, as well as the inability to retain and/or attract new highly skilled personnel, could have a material adverse effect on glencore's business." the prospectus, by far the most revealing record of the guarded firm, was released as the company set a 480p-580p per share price range for the london listing that values the group at £36.5bn at the middle of the range. it also revealed how glencore employees are not the only ones in line for massive windfalls. a roll call of 23 banks helping with the float will share a fees bonanza worth £165m, linked to underwriting the issue and promoting the ipo that will be the biggest ever on the london stock market. glencore is also listing on the hong kong exchange and 3.5% of new shares issued are reserved for hong kong retail investors. new shareholders will be buying into the world's biggest commodities trader, which generated revenue of $145bn in the year to 31 december 2010 and on profits of $5.3bn, up 61% on 2009. on wednesday the company said its performance in the first quarter of 2011 "continued to benefit from improved market conditions". glasenberg added: "strong markets experienced in the first three months of the year are continuing into the second quarter of 2011. in this regard, the directors reconfirm its intention to declare a $350m interim dividend in august 2011." out of the $10bn that glencore is expected to raise from the float, around $5bn will be used for planned capital expenditure over the next three years, while $2bn has been set aside to increase the company's stake in kazzinc in kazahkstan. glencore is also likely to bid for xstrata, the mining group in which it already owns a 35% stake. on wednesday xstrata endured its own pay controversy when 40% of shareholders failed to back its annual executive pay report. glencore was founded in 1974 by the controversial marc rich and shed its creator in the mid-1990s before developing into the one of the world's largest, but lowest profile, companies. remuneration at the firm has until now been kept secret, but the prospectus shows glasenberg will earn a salary of £925,000 a year, and will be entitled to a bonus of up to twice that. simon murray, the controversial chairman who was forced to apologise after making comments on the role of women in business, will be one of the best-paid ftse chairmen, with annual fees of £675,000. ivan glasenberg is the 54-year-old south african at the head of glencore; and until recently it was the biggest company you have never heard of. with a steely disposition and an insatiable appetite for work, friends say he is at the top of his game and not in the least fazed by his recent gruelling investment roadshow, which has involved working 16-hour days. but glasenberg has been angered by suggestions the company is floating only so the partners can cash in their shares. he said: "we are all invested for the long-term. no one is taking money off the table. as long as i am working for glencore, i will not be selling shares." once a champion race walker, glasenberg nearly took part in the 1984 olympics, but south africa's exclusion over apartheid prevented him participating. everyone agrees he is driven, but he doesn't relish the limelight, rarely talking to the media and – before the announcement of the ipo – reluctant to discuss the inner workings of his company. with a degree in accountancy from the university of the witwatersrand in south africa and an mba from the university of southern california, glasenberg has been chief executive of glencore since 2002. but he joined the business in 1984 as a coal trader in south africa, shifting around the globe to australia, hong kong and beijing on his way to the top. in a 2005 article in business week, he was identified at one of "the rich boys" – the glencore elite who had learned their trade from the firm's founder, marc rich, who fled to switzerland when he was charged by us authorities with selling oil to iran during the 1979-81 hostage crisis. rich was pardoned by bill clinton on the president's last day in the white house. competitors say glasenberg is a shrewd operator. "and he is incredibly well-connected," said one banker. "you just wouldn't believe it." richard wachman
glencore's 'cornerstone' investors anchor huge flotation the abu dhabi investment vehicle has been allocated the biggest single stake, worth $850m (£514m), and could buy more shares during the book-building process over the next fortnight. china's zijin mining will acquire a $100m holding, while gic, singapore's sovereign wealth fund, has agreed to spend $400m. american funds are heavily represented, with blackrock, fidelity and york capital accounting for around $800m. swiss banks ubs and credit suisse, and us hedge fund och-ziff, are also to take large stakes. michael tamvakis, professor of commodity economics and finance at cass business school in london, said: "by attracting big international investors with interests in commodities from one side of the world to the other, glencore is advertising its potential for future growth and expansion. it's a tremendous vote of confidence." tamvakis added that the flotation was an opportunity for glencore to invest in new projects, which will consolidate its position "not just as an intermediary trader, but an industrial concern taking more control of the commodity supply chain". ivan glasenberg, glencore's chief executive, said that agreements between international investors and the swiss-based group "represented one of the largest cornerstone books by value ever achieved for an ipo". he added: "over the decades we have built our business on long-term mutually beneficial relationships with customers, suppliers and capital providers." analysts said that demand for glencore stock was bound to be strong among asian and middle eastern investors because they are keen to diversify out of us government debt and secure supplies of vital raw materials. jan randolph, head of sovereign risk at ihs global insight, said: "the chinese, in particular, want to lock in supply chains and reduce their exposure to the dollar."
glencore's ivan glasenberg will be worth £5.76bn after flotation glencore's chief executive ivan glasenberg will be worth £5.76bn once the commodities trader floats later this month in a listing that will value the company at around £37bn. the 54-year-old's 18.1% stake will drop to 15.8% after the shares are listed, glencore's bumper 1,566-page prospectus has revealed, but he will remain the largest shareholder. the flotation will create four further billionaires among the trading group's top shareholders. daniel mate and telis mistakidis, the co-directors responsible for zinc, copper and lead, will own 6% of the publicly listed company, while tor peterson, director of coal and coke, and alex beard, director of crude oil and oil products, will hold stakes of 6.1% and 5.3% respectively. glasenberg has promised not to sell his entire stake in the company for five years, although he will be able to dispose of portions during that period. glencore set a 480p-580p per share price range for the london listing that values the group at £36.5bn at the middle of the range. founded in 1974 by marc rich, the group has fiercely guarded its privacy and previously the company refused to reveal how much of the group glasenberg owned. remuneration had also been a well-kept secret, but the prospectus shows glasenberg will earn £925,000 a year and will be entitled to a bonus of up to twice that amount.
osama bin laden's death boosts stock markets the dow jones industrial average climbed to a three-year high of 12,876 after the opening bell as investors reflected the euphoria of crowds gathering a few blocks away at the site of the infamous terror attacks of 2001. in lunchtime trading in new york, the dow was up some 22 points at 12,832. in europe, germany's dax rose 0.2% to 7527.64, its highest closing level in more than three years, while france's cac gained 0.1% to 4108.77. safe-haven investments suffered: in the metal markets, silver prices tumbled more than 6%, marking their biggest loss since late 2008, and gold fell more than 2%, off a record high. the global reaction was muted, with markets in britain, china, hong kong, malaysia, singapore and thailand closed because of holidays. the dollar strengthened initially but later slid to a three-year low against major currencies amid expectations that unlike other central banks such as the ecb, the federal reserve is in no rush to raise interest rates. analysts said after a temporary boost markets will focus on more fundamental matters again, in particular the progress of the global economic recovery and how central banks respond to higher inflation. "markets across the globe received a bit of a boost ... as news broke that us forces had killed osama bin laden," said ben potter, a market strategist at ig index. "however, like many euphoric bounces, they are often short-lived, especially given the possibility for reprisal attacks from extremists." oil prices dropped more than 3% but later recovered somewhat, with brent crude futures 0.6% lower at $125.2 while us crude was down 0.4% at $113.46 a barrel. us treasury prices were flat as traders concluded that the war on terror and a flight to safety, such as bonds, would continue. david buik at bgc partners spoke of a "momentous day", but added: "however, this may well be a relief rally. bin laden was symbolic, but al-qaida still flourishes. it is an ideology, which is not going away. if there are no reprisals in the middle east, then all well and good. however, if equities crack on, will the us treasury market suffer? with such a huge deficit, higher yields might transpire for us treasuries, which would be very damaging for the recovery of the us economy." "if osama is taken out, you are going to see risk premium being wiped out from the market. it is going to bring down oil prices by $5 to $10 if people warrant that risk premium is important," said jonathan barratt, the managing director of commodity broking services, based in sydney. this week brings a flurry of economic news: a run of economic data in the us, culminating on friday with unemployment numbers (non-farm payrolls) for april, as well as interest rate decisions from the bank of england and the european central bank on thursday. neither central bank is expected to move this week, although the ecb is likely to hint that it will follow up april's rate rise – the first in nearly three years – with another increase in june. in the uk the jury is still out on when the first rise will come.
vat-dodge firm the hut looks to float the firm, which counts the former marks & spencer boss sir stuart rose among its investors, is understood to have appointed rothschild to advise on the flotation, plans for which were set in train last year. based in cheshire, the hut also has extensive operations in guernsey from where it posts goods to online shoppers on behalf of big-name retailers in an arrangement to avoid vat. the business mostly sells vat-free cds and dvds but has expanded further into cheap handbags, jewellery, novelty gifts, sun cream and underwear. a successful float could see the hut's founder, matt moulding, a former executive in john caudwell's phone4u empire, realise some of the fortune he has built up in the business. it was founded in 2004 to replicate the success of fellow vat-avoidance specialist play.com, based in jersey. sales , and had recently for 2010 were about £90m. among his existing backers are artemis, balderton capital, bill currie – the former stockbroker who founded the high-street perfume chain fragrance shop – and angus munro, the former boss of matalan and poundstretcher, who became the hut's chairman last year. the decision to press ahead with a float surprised some online retail experts. after the chancellor's recent vat crackdown pledge, a senior executive at one major retailer said: "i would be quite worried if i was a shareholder at the hut right now." in the march budget, osborne said the vat exemption, known as low-value consignment relief (lvcr), was being "exploited for a purpose it was not intended for". it waives vat on goods imported from outside the eu costing £18 or less. osborne said lvcr exploitation was damaging high-street trade and cost the exchequer £130m a year in lost tax. he said after talks in europe that he would announce plans to end the abuse within a year. the hut does ship some goods, which would not qualify for lvcr, from the british mainland, though many of its clients use their own distribution arrangements for non-lvcr shipments. the hut is among a string of internet retailers with large operations in the channel islands, where speculation of a sell-off has gathered pace in recent weeks. play.com is also said to be considering a sale, while customised greetings card group moonpig.com is in talks to sell the firm to photobox. healthspan, a health supplements business, was reported to be seeking a new owner in january.
groupon's $20bn valuation is 'not rational', analysts warn groupon confirmed on thursday its plans to go public, raising an estimated $750m on the us stock markets at a price that could value it at potentially over $20bn (£12.23bn). the company will become the latest social media firm to go public, feeding an investor frenzy for new technology companies. but after looking over the financial details released this week, some analysts are sceptical about the long-term prospects for the shares. "it's just not a rational valuation," said sucharita mulpuru, analyst at forrester research. "it's not based on logic, it's based on whatever the highest bidder will pay for the company." david menlow, founder and president of ipofn online, said: "at some point there is going to be a clear separation between fact and fiction. at the moment, investors can't get past the fiction." menlow added that investors were making decisions based on "emotion" but that reality would eventually set in. groupon, a three-year-old chicago-based start-up, released some figures with its filing announcement. in 2009, groupon's first full year of business, the firm brought in $30.47m in revenues. in 2010 revenues reached $713.4m, according to its ipo filing. the company sells coupons offering discounts to local businesses, taking a cut in any money the business makes. it has 83m subscribers across 43 countries, according to its filing, and has 7,000 employees – half of which are in sales. but for all its huge revenues, groupon is loss-making and candidly admits it intends to continue losing more money. the company recorded a loss of $413.4m last year, and lost another $113.9m in the first quarter of 2011. last december, google offered $6bn for groupon, a figure many analysts described as absurd at the time. now it looks set to be valued at more than three times that figure. mulpuru said groupon has "spent $1bn to make $700m. how do they expect to make $2bn? none of their competition has gone away." alan patrick, co-founder of analyst broadsight, said groupon's value was based on a belief that it could dominate the market for online discounts. "neither of these capabilities are proven, both are risky, the long-term market is a low margin one – but right now is bubble time." groupon founder, andrew mason, made clear the risks the company faces in a letter to "potential shareholders". mason warned that groupon's path will have "twists and turns, moments of brilliance and other moments of sheer stupidity". the company may make financial sacrifices in pursuit of "ambitious bets on our future". mason wrote: "life is too short to be a boring company."
shares sell-off amid fears over us recovery and greek downgrade the sell-off that began in london and new york on wednesday gathered pace, as traders reacted to warnings that the world's biggest economy is running out of steam. the latest downgrade of greece's credit rating also dampened spirits, with a greek default now seen as a 50:50 chance. the ftse 100 index of blue chip shares shed 65 points, or over 1%, at the start of trading to 5863, with other major european indices also bathed in red. it closed 80 points lower, at 5847, with mining firms domianted the fallers. this followed losses across asia, as investors across the globe reacted to the worst day's trading in new york in almost a year. in japan, the nikkei tumbled 1.7% to 9,555.04 with exporters leading the losers. confidence was also knocked in tokyo by the "no confidence" vote in the embattled japanese prime minister naoto kan over his handling of the earthquake and nuclear crisis at the fukushima plant. kan survived the ballot, but has offered to quit once japan's economy is in better shape. "i think right now there's almost a market consensus of the slowing down of economic growth around the world," said linus yip, a strategist at first shanghai securities in hong kong told associated press. market confidence has been hit by grim economic news this week. this includes a gloomy report from us factories and worse-than-expected us jobs data on wednesday, with the private sector adding just 38,000 jobs in may against market expectations of 175,000. "a flurry of worse-than-expected economic data yesterday presented the ideal conditions for traders to start booking profits off gains from the start of the week," commented cameron peacock, market analyst at ig markets. "the resulting triple digit losses on wall street have been setting the pace for equity markets in recent hours," he warned. the us market suffered its worst day since august on wednesday, tumbling more than 2%, or 280 points, to 12,290.14. "over five-year investment horizons, around 50% of caa1-rated sovereigns, non-financial corporate and financial institutions have consistently met their debt-service requirements. around 50% have defaulted," moody's said. oil prices were also in reverse, with wti falling back through the $100 a barrel level, at $99.44 and brent crude down 70 cents at $113.84. markets are expected to remain volatile ahead of more key economic data from across the atlantic on friday – non-farm payrolls. economists have slashed their forecasts following the grim private sector jobs numbers, with many now expecting an increase of 150,000 jobs rather than 180,000. the pound also fell on thursday morning, losing half a cent against the dollar to $1.6308. this followed reports that one of the bank of england's key policymakers was not ruling out turning on the electronic printing presses again to stimulate growth. "i would consider it and i've said i still hold that possibility open," said fisher.
glencore shares fall to new low as results fail to impress one mining analyst, who did not want to be named said: "the point is that these results didn't come out and say that this could be a fabulous business and deliver earnings in all types of commodity price environments. glencore's key differentiator when compared with an anglo american or an xstrata is its marketing [trading] division, but it is not justifying the quality premium multiple." glencore said net profits rose to $1.3bn from $886m in the first three months of last year, while earnings from its industrial operations, which produce raw materials such as copper, oil and grain, grew by 50% to $1.1bn. even though earnings in the marketing division rose by 37% compared with the first quarter last year, analysts said the figures implied disappointing 2011 earnings when annualised. glencore chief executive ivan glasenberg said: "maybe the analysts are expecting quarterly results to be precisely divided by four ... we are building a company for the long term. we are developing the congo assets, we are developing the colombian assets, we are growing the assets. we can't sit here trading quarter by quarter. the long term thinkers in this company will produce long term results." since its listing last month, glencore's shares have struggled below their 530p flotation price. the price will be crucial as the company has made no secret of its intention to use its shares as currency for acquisitions, particularly miner xstrata, in which it holds a 34% stake. "we've been operating in peru for more than 20 years," glasenberg added. "this is going to occur from time to time. we work in those countries and we believe that they're not going to kill the industry by putting taxation on the mining industry that would make it unworkable".
glencore investors take cautious approach it's impossible to know today, of course. while they wait for answers, investors have taken the cautious option of marking down glencore's shares in line with the rest of the sector. at 501p, the shares stand 5.5% below the float price. ivan glasenberg, the chief executive, says he runs the firm on long-term principles. he can't complain if investors also take their time in judging the value of glencore's trading business.
nearly half uk's biggest companies failing to act on carbon emissions law in cheshire's case, the measurement is crucial: part of his bonus is dependent on the company meeting certain environmental goals, including selling a certain amount of "eco-products" which help consumers reduce their environmental footprints. last year, the company sold more than £1bn worth of the products – enough to ensure cheshire met his bonus criteria. the result of taking such a strong stance has been felt throughout the company, he said. "you don't want to be the one who tells the chief executive he's not going to make his bonus because the figures aren't good enough," he said. the majority of the ftse 100 are not covered by legislation such as the eu's emissions trading scheme, by which the most energy-intensive industries are awarded a quota of carbon permits determining how much they may emit, but they are almost all subject to other aspects of carbon regulation, such as the crc – the carbon reduction commitment, which places companies in a league table of energy efficiency. a carbon trust survey also found that 45% of consumers said they would avoid brands that did not take steps to reduce their carbon footprint. nearly half (47%) are more likely to choose low-carbon labelled goods over non-labelled ones, and one in five (21%) would pay more for carbon-labelled products. "taken alongside increased consumer demand for low-carbon products, 2011 is the year for businesses to develop strategies and set clear targets to help them plan and capitalise on green growth opportunities." as well as targets on carbon, an increasing number of companies are also setting targets on other aspects of their environmental performance. about a quarter of ftse 100 companies now have targets on waste, and about 22% have set targets to be more efficient in their use of water, according to the carbon trust research.
trader who is barred from city aims to teach his secrets a trader who has been banned from working in the city for five years – and has had to pay £1.3m in fines and other penalties imposed by the financial services authority – wants to train would-be traders and talk about his "exploits". the regulator said that barnett (also known as barney) alexander, an experienced city professional, had manipulated share prices on the london stock exchange by trying to influence the prices of complex transactions known as contracts for differences (cfds) and spread bets. the 47-year-old, who had worked from his family home in glasgow, was fined £700,000 – reduced from £1m after he co-operated with fsa – and paid £322,818 in restitution to firms which suffered a loss from his actions. he also transferred to the firms a further £306,312 held in trading accounts he controlled. he had generated a net profit after commission of £629,130 through this behaviour, the fsa said. but alexander insisted that he did not realise he was committing so-called market abuse and called for clarity on the rules. he said he was "mystified" by the fsa's decisions. "at no point did i realise that my actions might amount to market abuse. i developed a strategy that exploited weakness in the systems of large firms and i thought i was exploiting a trading inefficiency," he said. "my strategy did not mislead the rest of the market and i have paid back all the spread-betting firms involved. i think this case demonstrates that there is a need for greater clarity and guidance to assist self-employed traders like me to work out what is and what is not permitted by law." as he does not believe the prohibition prevents him engaging in education, alexander intends to train and teach would-be traders and "talk to people about my exploits". he said he agreed to settle because his lawyers at ashurst said it was in his best interests to do so but that he believed he would have won if he had decided to appeal. the fsa said his trading strategy took advantage of the fact that some cfd and spread-bet brokers price cfds and spread bets by looking at the best bid and offer price on the lse without looking at the volume being traded. tracey mcdermott, the fsa's acting director of enforcement and financial crime, said: "the fsa views market manipulation extremely seriously. alexander's behaviour was deliberate and repeated over a significant period of time. he sought to conceal his trading and made substantial profits at the expense of the firms which allowed him to trade with them.". the fsa was alerted to his behaviour in december 2009 when a broker reported a suspicious trade. the fsa took out an interim restraining and freezing injunction against alexander on 21 may 2010, and used the court to take out an injunction against him because he was suspected of engaging in market abuse. "the court action shows the fsa's determination to use all our powers to prevent market abuse and to pursue those who commit it," mcdermott said. as it imposed an order prohibiting him from holding "an function in relation to a regulated activity" the fsa said it was "minded to revoke the prohibition order … at any time after five years … in the absence of new evidence that he is not fit and proper".
financial engineering and the crisis in care the southern cross saga has certainly shed light on the extraordinary challenge that we all face in funding an ageing population. it has not, though, demonstrated that either blackstone in particular or private equity as a whole is a force operating against the public interest. tim hames bvca the foundation, which exists to alleviate hardship and provide care homes to rbs group employees, pensioners and dependants in "necessitous circumstances", is quoting financial losses as its main reason for putting forward closure proposals. yet the £1.3m loss it says it made in 2009-10 could easily be dealt with through fundraising activities or if it asked rbs ceo stephen hester for a small donation from the remuneration package of £7.8m that he is reported to have been awarded last year.   richard lynch london he might usefully have explained why the supposedly savvy city investors at pension funds and the like lap up stock in companies brought to market by private equity investors – by now i would have thought that everyone would know that this is akin to buying an attractive sports car with a nice paint job from a dodgy secondhand car dealer. andy smith kingston upon thames, surrey separate care homes can be owned as co-operatives. their members might be staff or clients – or both. they then draw on the purchasing power of a larger organisation to keep costs down, and should be able to guarantee standards and make long-term business sense. the co-operative model may need a bit of updating in places, but the core ideas and values are as much about sharing, respect and ethical trading as about effective business. these surely surpass any fake "big society" model of the eton mess. chris farrands nottingham richard thorne abingdon, oxfordshire
crunch week for glencore as share price props are removed the ftse 100's newest entrant listed on london last month when it chose morgan stanley from the 23 investment banks advising on the offer as its "stabilisation manager". the bank's job was to ensure that the shares traded within a "reasonable range", but that stabilisation period comes to an end on friday. since listing at 530p – which valued the group at £38bn – glencore shares have remained within a narrow band, rising as high as 559.16p and dipping as low as 507.98p. they closed at 510.2p on friday, but analysts said that the end of support could cause volatility. jeremy batstone-carr, the head of research at stockbrokers charles stanley, said: "it would be dangerous to generalise but [the end of stabilisation] could signal a period of weakness. it is not true to say that in every case volatility increases, but there is a risk." even though glencore was catapulted straight into the ftse 100, equity analysts have cautioned that the group's small free float – which is about 15% of the company – could mean that the shares experience sharp movements. the end of stabilisation comes as investors look forward to glencore's interim management statement on tuesday covering the three months to the end of march. the chief executive, ivan glasenberg, is likely to face questions about weekend speculation that he is considering a blockbuster £12bn bid for ftse 100 rival enrc, the underperforming kazakhstan miner facing substantial corporate governance problems. last week a trio of oligarchs and the kazakh government used their controlling stakes in enrc to fire two highly regarded independent directors, sir richard sykes and ken olisa. glencore has also been expected to make a move on the swiss-based mining group xstrata, in which it already owns a 34% stake. under the terms of its float, however, glencore cannot do any shares-based deals for six months. meanwhile, some economists are warning that there are signs that the commodity boom may be coming to an end. julian jessop, the chief economist at capital economics, said: "i think that the froth is started to come off. you can always find an exception, but the bigger picture is that most commodity prices, excluding precious metals, have been falling." price stabilisation works by companies issuing an over-allotment of shares called a "greenshoe", which in glencore's case was up to 10% of the shares on offer. if the price dips, the stabilsation manager can buy back the stake in the open market to support the price. if not, the shares will continue to be traded as normal. in a statement before the float, glencore said: "the stabilisation manager may over-allot the securities or effect transactions with a view to supporting the market price of the securities at a level higher than that which might otherwise prevail". morgan stanley declined to comment. however, it is understood to have been active in its role.
us federal reserve chairman sends stocks falling with fears over recovery shares fell broadly in london, echoing a late sell-off on wall street, after bernanke appeared to rule out further quantitative easing. us markets finished down on the news, with the dow jones falling 19 points by the close. the msci index of asia-pacific stocks fell 0.7% overnight, to add to the sell-off. the ftse 100 fell to as low as 5791 at one stage, a 73 point fall. it was down just under 1% at 13:40. according to chris weston of ig index, bernanke's comments have left traders "scratching around" for guidance on whether the world economy is faltering. gary jenkins of evolution securities said bernanke's speech had "something for everyone with the exception of those who might favour qe3". "he has to be careful what he says about further quantitative easing or it could become a self-fulfilling prophecy. he did say that this quarter's economic activity has been hampered by supply chain disruptions associated with the japanese earthquake and tsunami, the effects of which are likely to dissipate over the coming months. other fed members were also speaking yesterday with much the same message coming through: monetary policy is likely to remain accommodative for some time yet, but further qe is looking unlikely at this stage," jenkins said. in the speech, bernanke said the us recovery was clearly being held back by the troubled jobs and housing markets but there were indications that petrol prices would fall and the impact of japan's nuclear disaster on manufacturing was on the wane. "overall the economic recovery appears to be continuing at a moderate pace, albeit at a rate that is both uneven across sectors and frustratingly slow from the perspective of millions of unemployed and underemployed workers," bernanke said. a spate of weak economic data was capped by a report last week that showed the us added only 54,000 jobs in may, the fewest since september last year. the unemployment rate in may rose to 9.1%, from 9% in april. the parlous nature of the us jobs market was underlined once more on tuesday as the labour department reported that businesses had fewer job openings in april with employers posting 3m ads for jobs in april, down from 3.1m in march. gavan nolan, director of credit research at markit, argued that there were two schools of thought on the economy at present. "the first believes that recent data weakness indicates that demand is dwindling and the economy is in need of further stimulus. the second is convinced that we are in a transitory phase that will abate once the effects of the japanese earthquake and higher commodity prices are less acute," nolan said.
asian stocks fall after poor us jobs data asian stock markets fell on monday in thin holiday trading as investors took fright at a sharp slowdown in us hiring - further evidence that the american recovery is running out of steam. japan's nikkei lost 1.18% to close at 9380.35 while the singapore stock market was down nearly 1% at 3116.78. markets in hong kong, south korea and mainland china were closed for holidays.
goldman sachs lost 98% of gaddafi's $1.3bn investment   according to an investigation by the wall street journal, goldman offered to make gaddafi one of its biggest investors as compensation for losing 98% of the money the wall street firm invested on behalf of the libyan investment authority (lia). this left the $53bn gaddifi-controlled sovereign wealth fund, which elsewhere has stakes in companies such as financial times-owner pearson and bp, with just $25.1m of the money it entrusted to goldman. the fund, which has soared in value in recent years on the back of libya's growing oil wealth, was frozen by the eu and united nations in february because of its close links with the gaddafi family. under the terms of the proposed compensation deal, which was never consummated, lia would have received $5bn worth of preferred goldman shares, in return for a $3.7bn investment, allowing the fund to recoup its $1.3bn of losses. goldman lost the money – which it invested between january and june of 2008 in a range of options to buy currencies and shares at a future date for a stipulated price – after the collapse of lehman brothers panicked the markets and caused the underlying securities to crash in value. the investments, in a basket of currencies and the shares of six energy, utility and banking companies including citigroup, amounted to a bet on a rise in the underlying value of the assets. however, since their values plummeted they became virtually worthless. in one of the most extraordinary examples of the fallout from the financial crisis mustafa zarti, then lia's deputy chairman, summoned goldman's north african chief, youssef kabbaj and some colleagues, to a meeting in july 2008 to discuss the losses. it is understood that zarti was so angry he behaved "like a raging bull", cursing and threatening the goldman staff to such an extent there are rumours the bank arranged for security to protect its staff until they left libya the next day. the lia went on to demand restitution and issued vague threats of legal action, the wall street journal reported. as relations between goldman and gaddafi became increasingly strained, the wall street firm made a total of three separate compensation offers to invest in the group on attractive terms between may and june of 2009, including the deal involving preferred shares. another proposal would have given the lia unsecured debt in goldman, promising a stream of payments that would eventually have repaid the losses. over the next two years, discussions on these and a series of other compensation proposals were discussed by lia and top-level goldman staff – chairman lloyd blankfein, finance head david viniar and european chief michael sherwood. however, they were unable to agree a solution and talks are thought to have eventually petered out last summer. the other companies in which goldman invested on behalf of the lia were italian bank unicredit, spanish bank santander, german insurance group allianz, the energy company electricite de france and eni, the italian energy company. the complexity of an esoteric hong kong financial instrument has come back to haunt goldman sachs after an simple typographical slip threatened to cost it hk$350m (£27m). the error appeared in the small print of a phone book-sized prospectus accompanying the issue in february of four so-called "exchange-traded warrants" which offered exposure to japan's nikkei index of leading shares. in a formula to calculate the value of the warrants a multiplication symbol appeared where their should have been a division. the potentially costly error appeared in the bank's paperwork despite it having been scrutinised and approved by the hong kong stock exchange. such warrants are hugely popular in hong kong, with 14,400 similar products said to have been issued last year by large investment banks. it was not until the end of march — almost seven weeks after the warrants had been issued — that a lawyer from goldman reported the mistake to the stock exchange. for almost two hours the price of warrants began to soar until trading was suspended at the bank's request. goldman has offered to buy back warrants at a 10% premium, an offer accepted by 75% of holders. however, a hard core of large investors believe they are contractually entitled to considerably more. one told the economist magazine the bank's offer was worth hk$10m, whereas a strict application of the formula suggested the warrants could be worth $350m.
blackrock attacks investment banks over float valuations multimillion-pound windfalls gleaned by investment banks in city flotations have been criticised by the london stock market's biggest institutional investor. senior uk executives at blackrock, which controls assets worth $3.7tn (£2.2tn), expressed frustration at the way initial public offerings (ipos) are being handled in london in a letter to bankers who orchestrate flotations. criticising a list of "recent developments in the ipo market", james macpherson and luke chappell said that advisers were wooing companies with excessive valuations. "we are concerned that companies are appointing advisers based on indications of valuation that are unrealistic," they wrote. indicating strains in the level of trust between institutional investors and bankers, macpherson and chappell claimed that short-term incentives to get the highest flotation price possible underpinned bankers' fees and encouraged were encouraging aggressive behaviour. "we are concerned about the structure of incentive fees which maximise your returns for the price achieved on the first day of trading rather than at some, more distant date, eg six months after float. such fees do not represent an alignment of interests between us and seem to drive increasingly aggressive behaviour from syndicates."
glencore makes galactic gaffe his terms of employment insist that he will comply with "all rules and regulations issued by galaxy international plc and other group companies", while the publicity-shy former champion race walker must also promptly disclose to the galaxy board "full details of any wrongdoing by any employee of any group company where that wrongdoing is material to that employee's employment". the contract was signed by glencore's stefan peter and richard marshall, as well as glasenberg, and was drawn up by linklaters, the company's law firm. a linklaters source said: "oh, that's a mistake. galaxy was the code name for glencore. it's a bit embarrassing." he insisted the contract would not have to be reissued as it was obvious that galaxy really referred to glencore. while city commercial lawyers said these errors can sometimes lead to contracts having to be produced again, they added that glencore and linklaters had probably got away with it this time. one lawyer added: "it's a rap on the knuckles to the junior who failed to change the words. it is embarrassing, but not fatal." last night glencore denied being involved in media reports that browne would be its new chairman.
glencore's market debut as ftse 100 stock marred by short selling the company with a secretive past, founded by former fugitive from us justice, marc rich, saw its shares close at 525p against an offer price of 530p. although the stock rose 2% on the day, market watchers said the rise was muted as shortsellers sought out the shares to make a killing in the hope they would fall further. shorting is done by borrowing the shares from a third party such as a bank, selling them on, and then buying them back when the price, hopefully, plummets. "there is evidence that hedge funds are borrowing the shares from their prime brokers in the belief they can turn a fat profit some way down the line," said one analyst. some shortsellers were buying options on the shares in the derivatives market, betting on continuing falls in the stock price in the weeks ahead. glencore's float, although over-subscribed, has been knocked by a sell off in the commodities market in the run up to its flotation. but glencore has raised $10bn from its initial public offering (ipo). sources close to the company said last week it had left "money on the table" with an offer price pitched in the middle of the expected range following advice from its financial advisers, citigroup and morgan stanley. that was interpreted as the company hoping the shares would close at a 5% to 10% premium to the offer price after the first day of trading, but those hopes have been dashed. the shares dropped on the grey market after the offer was launched conditionally last thursday, touching lows of 506p when the mining sector was battered by worries over chinese demand and threats to a european recovery. while some analysts expressed concern over glencore's valuation, several brushed aside worries about the stock trading below the offer price. analysts at numis securities said the listing showed "confidence in a robust long term commodities story." tom gidley-kitchin at charles stanley said: "in an ideal world, they [glencore] would probably have liked to see the shares being up after the first day of unconditional trading. but being down a couple of per cent is hardly a disaster. the longer term outlook is what really matters." but andrei kroupnik at collins stewart said the interesting bit will come when the company releases its earnings, because their growth forecasts for this year were "very aggressive" for the mining division swiss-based glencore, famous for its fiercely guarded tradition of secrecy, has now drawn the line under four decades as a private company. though largely unknown by the public before the market offering, millions of britons will become shareholders via their pension funds, as ftse 100 tracker funds are obliged to own the stock of such a large company. the shares have been catapulted straight into the index of leading shares. glencore has consistently said it is listing for the long term and its partners, along with cornerstone investors who have signed up to back glencore's float, are locked in for at least six months. founded in 1974 by marc rich, a trading sensation who fell foul of us authorities, but who was controversially pardoned by president clinton on his last day in office in 2000, glencore has grown into the world's largest diversified commodities trader, with subsidiaries employing tens of thousands of staff.
world stock markets hit by eurozone divisions deep divisions among senior eu policymakers over the greek debt crisis and fears of a sharp slowdown in growth across europe, china and the us sent world stock markets into a downward spin on monday. the ftse 100 tumbled 1.9% to 5835.9, a fall of 112.6 points, while the dow jones index had slumped 135 points, or more than 1%, by mid-afternoon in new york. a day of anxious trading also saw the euro fall one-and-a-half cents against the dollar as investors piled out of the currency. europe suffered more than other regions after a weekend of economic and political strife that added to concerns that the eurozone may be forced to cope with countries defaulting on their debts or the ignomy of some leaving the monetary union altogether. "it was a bad weekend for the eurozone and in particular for those politicians and financial authorities trying desperately to keep the euro project together," said jeremy batstone-carr, director of private client research at charles stanley. italy joined the roll-call of nations to be singled out by the ratings agency standard & poor's for a warning over its prospects for growth this year. s&p revised its outlook for italy over the weeken to "negative" from "stable". meanwhile, the defeat of the spanish socialist party in local and regional elections ut in question madrid's austerity programme. spain's 10-year borrowing costs increased to 5.6% – the highest rate since january. economists across the political spectrum said the new regional government in spain could unearth previously undisclosed debts and push the country into a greek-style crisis. paul krugman, professor of economics at princeton university, said: "europe's troubled debtor nations are suffering further economic decline thanks to austerity programmes, and confidence is plunging instead of rising. it's now clear that greece, ireland and portugal can't and won't repay their debts in full, although spain might manage to tough it out." westlb rate strategist michael leister, said: "the key point is that the crisis seems to be taking hold even of peripheral countries regarded as solid. sentiment is that there appears to be no end to it now italy is being scrutinised by the ratings agencies." a survey of eurozone manufacturers and services firms revealed a sharper than expected slowdown in activity. a boom in germany and to a lesser extent france and holland appeared to be petering out. analysts said the gloomy picture supported concerns the eurozone will return to a period of low or negligible growth after a brief spurt over the last six months. "the eurozone pmi continued to show robust expansion, but the rate of increase showed the sharpest slowing since just after the collapse of lehman's in late-2008," said chris williamson, chief economist at markit, the research firm that produces the index. he pointed to a concurrent fall in service sector business confidence to its weakest since july 2009 as a sign the slowdown may prove more than a temporary blip. the political situation also worsened as policymakers bickered over how to answer calls from some countries for more leeway in dealing with their debts. a prominent european central bank member said the eu should take a hard line on the negotiations over athens' debts, arguing that negotiations to cut greece's debt mountain would undermine the credibility of the eu. in a thinly veiled threat, lorenzo bini smaghi warned that the ecb would be unable to use greek bonds as collateral if it forced investors to accept a cut in the value of its loans, a situation that would leave the country to fend for itself in the private markets. with the effective interest rate on two-year greek bonds already above 26%, analysts said it was hard to see how greece could fend for itself outside the euro. greek prime minister george papandreou has discussed new emergency measures to cut greece's deficit in a bid to convince leaders the country can avoid a restructuring. the athens administration hinted that a series of privatisations would be announced imminently to raise €50bn (£43.6bn) , led by sales of the state's stakes in the ote telecoms company, postbank, the ports of thessaloniki and athens and the thessaloniki water company. investors, jaded by promises from the greek government of quick action to solve its debt crisis, shrugged off the news. the cost of insuring greek debt rose, with five-year credit default swaps (cdss) on greek debt rising 50 basis points to 1390, according to markit.
world markets rattled by european fears renewed fears about the eurozone hit world markets on monday morning, ramping up the cost of insuring greek and italian debt and sending share prices tumbling. ratings agencies delivered damaging judgments on both greece and italy's debt positions late last week and over the weekend, with political uncertainty in spain adding to worries. the euro fell one and a half cents against the dollar overnight as investors piled out of the currency. that triggered a fall in the price of oil, which is denominated in dollars and tends to fall when the dollar rises, because demand is hit by the fall in global buyers' purchasing power. brent oil futures were down by $3 a barrel, or almost 3%, to $109. over the weekend standard & poor's downgraded italy's credit rating outlook to negative, on the basis that political issues could impact its deficit reduction plans. five year cds on italian government debt rose 15 basis points to 176, markit said. in spain the losses suffered by the ruling socialist party in the country's local elections has further undermined confidence in the country's austerity measures. the weakness in the eurozone prompted markets to fall across the world. the japanese nikkei fell 1.5% overnight, and the ftse 100 fell by more than 100 points to 5847.47, a drop of 1.7%. the dow jones industrial average in the us is expected to show a fall of around 100 points, 1%, when it opens later.
pass notes, no 2,979: linkedin
linkedin share surge signals dotcom bubble 2.0 linkedin, the first major us social network to go public, saw its shares more than double as they debuted on the new york stock exchange to a bidding frenzy from investors. it makes reid hoffman, linkedin's founder and largest shareholder, a billionaire and comes as larger social network firms including facebook and groupon are lining up floats. the rise in shares is likely to drive up the prices of those sales too. linkedin shares had been priced at $45 (£27.73) before the flotation and shot up as high as $122 at one point and ended the first day of trading at $94.25. the company is now valued at more than $10bn, a huge increase for a firm that was recently valued at about $2.5bn. linkedin's stellar debut is the clearest sign yet of appetite among investors for shares in the new generation of technology and digital media companies. as companies attract ever-larger valuations, some analysts are warning of a bubble similar to the one that burst at the turn of the millennium. alan patrick, co-founder of analyst broadsight, said linkedin's debut was "all in all a classic dotcom ipo [initial public offering] with perhaps the proviso that there is a bit of revenue there". linkedin's flotation makes it easily the highest valuation of a us internet firm since google went public in 2004. the business networking site has about 100 million users and turned a profit of $15.4m on revenues of $243m in 2010. though other social networks are far larger, notably facebook with about 700 million users worldwide, the business orientation of linkedin's members make them potentially more valuable to advertisers. the company managed to grow through the recession and turned profitable last year, having made operating losses from 2007 until 2009. the stock offering follows the equally frenzied debut of renren, a social media firm often described as china's facebook. renren debuted on the new york stock exchange earlier this month and raised $743m. but the shares are now trading below their initial price of $14. linkedin's chief executive, jeffrey weiner, told the wall street journal he was not concerned about the stock's first-day performance. "to be honest with you, i didn't give a lot of thought to what the opening would be like," weiner said. "this isn't necessarily indicative of anything. the market will do what it will do. what we are completely focused on is our long-term plans and our fundamentals, and getting that right." linkedin's backers – bain capital ventures, goldman sachs and mcgraw-hill – offered 3m shares in the ipo. linkedin offered a further 4.8m shares. other investors – sequoia capital, greylock partners and bessemer venture partners, which together own about two-fifths of the company – did not participate in the offering. linkedin's flotation is expected to spark a social media goldrush, with some of the internet's most talked-about – if not profit-making – companies going public. facebook employees are currently selling shares in the privately-held company that value it at between $80bn and $100bn. groupon, the online discount business which spurned a $6bn offer from google last year, raised $1bn in new financing in january and is expected to float this year. the company has been valued at $20bn. zynga, the maker of popular facebook games, farmville and cityville, is believed to be worth $10bn. one new york stockbroker who did not buy linkedin shares said: "if i had, i would be out in the bar celebrating. the price is the price. if people think that this is what it's worth, this is what it's worth." patrick said linkedin was just the beginning. "i don't think it's the big ipo in my bubble-meter, it's a john the baptist type," he said.
glencore prepares to join ftse amid scrutiny of namibia court battle the legal case is one of many beginning to attract attention as glencore emerges on to the public markets with its £37bn valuation – making it bigger than tesco – after enjoying years of relative obscurity operating as a private partnership from its swiss base. namibia's high court is hearing proceedings which centre on a deal the commodity trading company struck to supply the state oil group, namcor. that agreement is being blamed by the government for helping plunge the african company into financial crisis as it was locked into paying high prices for fuel. a namibia cabinet briefing paper on the case, alleged: "glencore has been negotiating with namcor in bad faith and seems to have undisclosed ambitions to control the local oil industry in future." glencore has defended the contract, saying the government knew prices would be likely to rise yet it failed to put in place procedures to deal with the increases. the report is understood to have been sent to president hifikepunye pohamba's office and forms part of the documents filed in a high court application where glencore opposed the government's decision to suspend its namcor contract. that suspension was subsequently overturned by the courts as it had ignored the parties' constitutional right to fair procedure. the namibia government has appealed. the legal case follows a 2009 pricewaterhousecoopers audit of namcor, which observed that dealing with glencore "forces namcor to continue to purchase from its current suppliers even though other suppliers may potentially offer lower prices". both glencore and the ministry for mines and energy declined to comment. the listing prospectus does reveal a belgian criminal investigation in which glencore's dutch-based grain trading operation, a former employee and one current employee have all been charged with bribing european officials, but the company does not detail any further legal battles as it believes it has "meritorious" defences and that any rulings will not adversely affect its finances. the document states: "certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against glencore. whilst glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims. glencore believes the likelihood of any liability arising from these claims to be remote and the liability, if any, resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows". however, among piles of mundane commercial disagreements filed in the us, court documents detail how one jeremiah hunley is suing glencore and other defendants for $100m, while asking for punitive damages of 10% of the defendants' net worth. that case follows an accident when the plaintiff lost both of his "arms below the elbow" and suffered "severe injuries to his abdominal and internal organs". glencore has filed a "motion to dismiss" saying that hunley is seeking "to impose liability upon glencore, derivatively, based solely upon the alleged torts of its alleged subsidiaries". the wide collection of cases continues the company's controversial legal tradition. more recently, in australia, lawyers have found plenty of work at glencore's 71%-owned subsidiary minara resources – where glencore's chief executive, ivan glasenberg, its former chairman, willy strothotte, and trader, marc ocskay, all sit on the board. peter coates, just installed as a new independent director of glencore, was the australian-listed company's chairman until last month. minara has just settled a long-running case with the wutha native title claimant group, which alleged breaches of an agreement dating back to 1996 which was supposed to compel the company to employ certain numbers of the wutha community in return for mining nickel on land which the plaintiffs claim. last august, wutha lodged a a$62m claim which minara argued was "unfounded, grossly inflated and without merit" while promising to continue to "vigorously defend the proceedings". the company, which said the deal had been cancelled because of "non-performance", has just settled the claim out of court. elsewhere, century aluminum, which is 44% owned by glencore, is being pursued in a string of cases by a combination of environmental agencies, local residents and other companies. in a us stock exchange filing last week, century admitted: "at this time, it is not practicable to predict the ultimate outcome of these actions or to estimate a range of possible damage awards" but states that the actions will not materially affect its finances. glencore declined to comment on all legal cases.
the rise of glencore, the biggest company you've never heard of glencore executives, the letter said, "are extremely private individuals", who expected scrutiny of their business activities, but not their personal lives. a warning followed about the "security risk" that could be posed by any reports about their homes or private lives. the executive whom schillings had in mind when writing its letter was glencore's chief executive, ivan glasenberg, a man so secretive that the financial times has described him as "one of the great enigmas of the corporate world". glencore's market share is so large that it recorded revenues of $145bn (£89bn) last year and the flotation value is £37bn. glasenberg, owning around 16%, will instantly become one of the world's richest men. the shares started so-called "conditional dealings" on thursday – proper trading does not start until next week – and had a far from sparkling start, moving only sideways even though they were priced keenly in an effort to get a strong start. because the company will leap straight into the ftse 100 index, those investments that track the uk's biggest quoted companies will be obliged to buy its stock, with the result that the company's fortunes will have a bearing on the pension funds of millions of people. but so jealously has glasenberg guarded his privacy that his name means nothing to the man on the street. for years he has avoided speeches and, until recently, had given only one interview – to his old university magazine. if you live outside the world of commodities trading or corporate finance, ivan glasenberg is probably the most important businessman you have never heard of. he was born in january 1957 in south africa, one of four children of samuel glasenberg, a luggage manufacturer and importer born in lithuania, and his wife, blanche, a south african. the family home was in illovo, a comfortable, tree-lined northern suburb of johannesburg. glasenberg attended a state school in nearby hyde park, where one teacher recalls him as an independent thinker "who did not always accept that the teacher was correct". his parents were keen to see him forge a career in business, and he studied accounting at the university of the witwatersrand before serving a form of apprenticeship with the johannesburg auditing firm nexia levitt kirson. glasenberg was athletic – even today he tries to run or swim every day – and excelled at a particularly unusual sport: race walking. by his early 20s he was the country's junior champion, and hoped to compete in the olympics. realising that, as a south african during apartheid, this could not happen, he considered applying for israeli citizenship. today, the fact that he could not compete in the olympics is said still to rankle with him. like every other young white south african male, he had to do national service. friends say he describes the year he spent as an army clerk, many miles from the frontline, as his "brain-dead year", when he did not once need to think for himself. tony leon, the south african ambassador to argentina, who shared accommodation with him, said: "we weren't the world's most conscientious soldiers: getting out of guard duty was the order of the day. none of us took our duties particularly seriously. and if he had any political views, they weren't apparent." another person who knew glasenberg at this time said: "i don't know his views but i would guess he was anti-apartheid. he left south africa as soon as he could, which is congruent with many jewish south africans of that time." glasenberg travelled to los angeles to study for a master's in business administration at the university of southern california's business school. years later he told its magazine that it had been "an enormous cultural shock" to leave south africa. "i stopped focusing on people being different and i started treating everyone the same way." in the same interview he explained that he had become intrigued by commodities trading at witwatersrand when he learned about the global trade in one raw material: wax. "i observed a man sourcing candle wax from south america and selling it to japan. i thought: 'that's unbelievable. talking on the phone in his office, that man made money moving candle wax from one country to another' it really interested me." it was the only interview glasenberg gave before glencore announced its float. even that appeared one too many. when it appeared on its website, glasenberg asked his alma mater to take it down. today, members of faculty refuse to talk about him, saying they know he values his privacy, so it would not be in the university's interest to do so. on graduating in 1983, glasenberg applied, successfully, for a job in new york, working for the man who was at that time the biggest commodities trader in the world: marc rich. glasenberg never did get to work in new york. just as he was about to join the company, rich realised that he was going to have his collar felt by the us federal authorities, and fled to switzerland, never to return. he was subsequently charged with racketeering, evading millions of dollars in taxes and trading with the enemy: the ayatollahs' iran. at that time, south africa was at the heart of what rich would later tell his biographer, daniel ammann, was the "most important and most profitable" part of his business. he made an estimated $2bn supplying oil to the apartheid regime. glasenberg, who began work as a junior member of staff in the coal division, was aware of the oil trading but believed there was nothing wrong with it and had no idea whether or not any embargo was being broken. in the event, by the time the un adopted an international oil embargo on south africa at the end of 1987, glasenberg had moved on, working for rich first in sydney and then beijing, selling coal across the far east. in 1991 he was brought to head office in switzerland as head of the coal division. he had caught rich's attention. rich told the guardian he believes glasenberg to be a brilliant commodities trader. "i liked him right away. he is an excellent analyst, very intelligent and hard-working. without a doubt he is the strong man at glencore." "they have profited from being extremely secretive'" says ammann. "the sort of people they do business with do not want their deals in the spotlight." as well as trading with south africa and iran, rich was dealing with castro's cuba and giving mossad an occasional helping hand. at the end of 1993 he lost control of the company when a disastrous attempt to corner the world zinc market led to a number of the rich boys insisting he give up his majority stake. after a management buyout, marc rich & co was renamed glencore. glasenberg was appointed chief executive in 2002, and until now the company has been run as a private partnership. today, he and his colleagues are eager to play down the rich connection. glencore's website says the company was founded in 1974, but there is no mention of the founder's name. while glasenberg is already a wealthy man, his lifestyle is by no means opulent. he is said to have just one home, a discreet modern villa in a pretty village near zurich, not far from the lindt chocolate factory. he appears to be motivated more by a determination to succeed – to be the best commodities trader, running the best business – than to be even more wealthy. indeed, one person who knows him well say he is driven by anxiety that he may not succeed; that fear of failure is "the biggest fear of every minute" of his life. this will not be easy. secrecy, says ammann, "is in glencore's dna". it is also highly valued by its chief executive. glasenberg prizes the anonymity that he and his wife and two children enjoy – and the fact that until now many of his old school friends in johannesburg had no idea how much he earns. despite schillings' letter, he knows this is about to change. glasenberg, says one person who knows how much he anguished over the decision to take glencore public, is well aware that he "has crossed the rubicon".
linkedin value bubbles up at what point does the bubble burst? that is also impossible to know. linkedin's float displayed a powerful combination of forces – desperate investors who wish they had been on board years ago; powerful investment banks anxious to generate excitement; and a shortage of shares for sale. it makes for an intoxicating formula – the prospect of doubling your money in a day – and can last longer than you might think. but the pop will come and it will be loud.
glencore shares finish where they start on first day of conditional trading priced at 530p each, the shares jumped to 548p shortly after the market opened, only to fall back to precisely where they started as the market closed. john meyer, an analyst at fairfax is, said: "traders are going to be cautious. as an issue, it is quite likely to go up. the big funds [that have invested] are not going to want to see it collapse in the first week of trading." glencore's eagerly anticipated flotation is the biggest ever seen on the london stock market, and is the third largest in europe. the company is due to be fast-tracked into the ftse 100 at close of business on tuesday, when full trading begins. despite the lack of buyers, ivan glasenberg, glencore's chief executive and the company's largest shareholder with a stake worth around £6bn, put a positive spin on the opening day. he said: "we welcome and look forward to building long-term mutually beneficial relationships with our new shareholders, as we have with our customers, suppliers and capital partners over the years. indeed, the final pricing of our offer reflects this approach. the significant level of investor interest re-affirms our belief that industry conditions and glencore's business model today provide us with a compelling basis to continue to deliver and sustain superior returns". glencore said it had raised gross proceeds of $10bn (£6bn) from the listing, which valued the company at £37bn. the proceeds were made up of $7.9bn of new share sales plus $2.1bn from existing shareholders. glencore's directors and employees still hold about 83.1% of the company, with the listing creating five glencore billionaires: glasenberg; daniel mate and telis mistakidis, the co-directors responsible for zinc, copper and lead; tor peterson, director of coal and coke; and alex beard, director of crude oil and oil products. conditional dealings among institutional investors are those made in the period between the initial pricing of the group and its formal stock market listing.
glencore? it's like buying olympics tickets generally speaking, ranges are announced with the hope that the final price will fall within the upper half – it helps to create an impression that demand was surprisingly strong. the wobbles in the commodity markets appear to have been felt, which is perhaps not a great surprise.
glencore valued at £38bn as it reveals its flotation price glencore will be worth £38bn when it floats on the london stock exchange on thursday after setting its offer price at 530p a share. the pricing of the initial public offering (ipo) is slightly below the 535p mid-point of a revised range that the mining and commodities trading group announced earlier this week. glencore is deliberately pricing the float at the lower end of initial expectations in a bid to ensure a strong aftermarket, allowing investors to make a quick profit after conditional trading begins on thursday morning. the public will not be able to buy shares until 24 may, while investors in hong kong will have to wait another day. glencore's ipo is the biggest ever to have been launched on the london stockmarket, and is the third largest in europe. analysts suggested the relatively modest offer price could be a sop to those investors who fear the recent commodities sell-off still has some way to run. critics have suggested the glencore float could mark the high-water mark of the last 18 months' commodities boom. david buik, of bgc capital partners, said it was vital to keep investors on side by resisting the temptation to overprice the issue. "you have to let new shareholders take profits early on in order to lift sentiment and help glencore build up its shareholder register," he added. buik reckons the shares will be worth between 545p and 552p after the first day of conditional trading. the company is raising £5.8bn of new money, including extra shares worth £620m to reflect the fact that the offer is several times oversubscribed. the additional equity is known as a "greenshoe" option and is exercised only where there is overwhelming demand from institutional investors. glencore will use the ipo's proceeds for acquisitions in eastern europe and organic expansion across its global operations. some investors are sceptical about glencore's offer because they suspect it is a way for the firm's 485 partners to cash in their paper fortunes. "we are being asked to facilitate the enrichment of existing managers but in those circumstances, the owners can hardly argue for a fat premium," said one shareholder. the ipo will make multibillionaires of five glencore directors, including ivan glasenberg, chief executive, whose 15.8% holding will be worth about £6bn. glasenberg recently hit back at the criticism, saying: "we are all invested for the long term. as long as i am working for the company, i will not be selling shares." its top directors are locked in for five years, according to the ipo prospectus. the float has lifted the veil on one of the world's most secretive companies. glencore has revealed that in its role as an intermediary, buying and selling commodities to third parties, it accounts for more than 60% of the zinc market and 50% of copper. the firm has already struggled to cope with being in the spotlight: its chairman, simon murray, recently apologised for suggesting that women are "not so ambitious" in business as men because they prefer to bring up children. glencore was set up by marc rich in 1974, who soon turned it into an international business success story. but, in 1983, he was indicted in the us on charges including tax evasion, racketeering and trading with an enemy state, iran. he became a fugitive in switzerland but was controversially pardoned by bill clinton in 2001. glencore cut its links with rich in the 1990s. goldman sachs warned last month that the commodities boom could be over in the short term.
glencore narrows price range of its £39bn initial public offering glencore, the commodity trading company, has countered scepticism over its imminent flotation by narrowing the price range of its £39bn initial public offering. sources close to the deal said the shares, which will be priced this week, will be offered at between 520p and 550p each, almost exactly at the centre of the previous range of 480p-580p. the new midpoint of 535p represents an increase from the previous 530p midpoint of less than 1% and follows reports that the global collapse in commodity prices may be forcing the company to reconsider its plans. despite that backdrop, sources close to glencore always insisted that there would not be enough shares to satisfy investor demand. bankers said that at this stage in large flotations, investors only give a "moral commitment" to buy shares, which is not legally binding. however, while it is rare for funds to back out of their commitments in oversubscribed offers, they frequently request higher allocations than they want in the expectation that they are likely to receive fewer shares than they ordered. one natural resources analyst, who declined to be named, said: "last week there was talk about this offer being two times oversubscribed. "if anybody thought that would push the shares up, it hasn't. what will be interesting now is how much the index-tracking funds will have to buy." market watchers added that glencore shares would almost certainly rise shortly after the float as tracker funds – which mirror the ftse 100 index – will be forced to buy from a limited pool of glencore shares being traded. however, analysts cautioned that the small free float – which is about 15% of the company – might also work against the group when demand eventually reverses. the commodity trader declined to comment on the narrowing of the price range. its chief executive, ivan glasenberg, whose stake in the company will be valued at almost £6bn once it lists, insisted last week that the 23 banks named on the glencore ticket had experienced "strong demand" for the shares. "we haven't seen much pullback with the recent drop in commodity prices," glasenberg told investors in hong kong.
rival bid for toronto exchange may leave lse open to takeover the maple proposal is worth $48 per tmx share, while the lse merger values the exchange at about $40 a share. james hamilton, a numis analyst, pointed out that the lse's relatively small size could make it attractive to a predator if the tmx deal folded. but he also noted that lse could increase its bid – it expects £100m of cost savings – and still justify this higher price. this, though, would mean the lse might find it harder to win regulatory approval for the deal. "the main problem here, however, becomes regulatory," said hamilton, "as any increased offer removes the concept of a merger of equals." keith baird, an oriel analyst, said: "if the counter-offer succeeds, as it might well do, it would be a severe blow for the lse's response to global exchange consolidation and specifically the nyse/deutsche börse [merger]. the lse's strategy of diversification away from dependence on london (and to a lesser extent milan) and securing extra growth would be badly damaged." deutsche börse, an arch-rival of the lse, is now at an advantage, analysts believe. konrad becker, at merck finck, said: "the fact that nasdaq and ice are withdrawing their offer for nyse is no surprise. it became clear already that the offer wouldn't be successful. it's good news for deutsche börse." if nasdaq and ice had succeeded in buying nyse euronext, they would have split it up. nasdaq would have acquired nyse's equities and equities options business, and ice would have bought its london-based futures unit, liffe. nyse had rejected the unsolicited offer, and nasdaq and ice had been ready to launch a hostile bid. now, though, they recognise it would fail. bob greifeld, nasdaq omx chief executive, said: "we took the decision to withdraw our offer when it became clear that we would not be successful in securing regulatory approval for our proposal despite offering a variety of substantial remedies. "we saw a unique opportunity to create more value for stockholders and strengthen the us as a centre for capital formation amid an ongoing shift of these vital activities and jobs outside of our country." the london stock exchange (lse) has been at the centre of a string of proposed merger and acquisitions in the last decade.
glencore could dynamite the commodity boom now it transpires china's growth miracle is not especially good for western consumers either. the rise in global commodity prices stimulated by china's overheating economy is making fuel, food and industrial goods dearer, thus squeezing living standards. it is not only western consumers feeling the pinch. for all but the poorest in the west, rising food prices are an inconvenience; in the least developed countries, they mean hunger. the picture is complicated by the fact that the boom in commodities creates winners and losers. countries pumping oil or mining metals are enjoying booms on the back of strong growth in china and its big rival india. china's imports from australia, latin america and africa were almost 50% higher in the first quarter of 2011 than a year earlier. imports from canada almost doubled. germany is another country enjoying a chinese growth dividend after sensibly refusing to allow its industrial base to be hollowed out, even while policymakers in britain and america swanned around pretending that manufacturing doesn't matter. while the uk has been flatlining for the past six months, germany has been powering ahead, growing by 1.5% in the first quarter of 2011 as the knock-on effects from strong exports rippled through the economy. the flipside is that china is running stonking trade surpluses with the us, britain and the eurozone, worth $361bn (£223bn) in the year to april. for the us and the uk these were records beijing argues that china's trade surplus is well down on the peak in the year to march 2009, but as graham turner of gfc economics pointed out, that is only because its refusal to allow its currency to appreciate more rapidly has led to global commodity prices rising fast. that has added to china's import bill and stoked inflationary pressures in emerging and developed nations. "the chinese have only been able to hold down their trade surplus by fuelling a commodity price bubble. their policies are unsustainable and ultimately destabilising for the global economy." it would be quite wrong to pin all the blame on china for volatility in commodity prices. part of the recent oil price rise has been caused by the unrest in north africa and the middle east, which has added a risk premium of perhaps $20 a barrel to crude prices. western policymakers did not have to base their economic strategies on unsustainable consumer booms; they did not have to deregulate financial markets so that the upward trend in commodity prices justified by economic fundamentals (the growth in the emerging world) has been accentuated by the use of derivatives to speculate in the futures markets. they could have been careful with quantitative easing to guarantee that the newly-created money was used as seedcorn capital for productive enterprise rather than as casino chips. they could have come to an agreement to use buffer stocks to limit price movements or been more creative with the use of strategic reserves of oil; a public announcement that stocks were being run down would have burned the fingers of the speculators given the highly-leveraged nature of trading and the herd-like mentality of traders. perhaps they will. looked at in one way, the recent performance of the global economy has been impressive. the bric countries – brazil, russia, india and china – have been growing fast, while the policy stimulus in the us appears to be counteracting the weakness of the housing market. of the big countries in the west, only britain and earthquake-affected japan are really struggling. the hope is that central banks and finance ministries will continue to muddle through. china has been using a mixture of price controls and modest increases in interest rates as it seeks to bring down inflation without causing a hard landing for the economy. the us economy has been pumped up with cheap money and large budget deficits; the trick for the federal reserve and the treasury is to remove the stimulus without triggering a double-dip recession. in britain, the bank of england believes the economy will emerge from its soft patch as the year wears on, even though dearer domestic energy bills are likely to push the annual inflation rate up to 5%. this all sounds uncomfortably reminiscent of the goldilocks scenario – not too hot and not too cold but just right. for it to transpire, commodity prices have to ease back gently, reducing inflationary pressure and thus making life less complicated for policymakers. if they come down rapidly, the chinese trade surplus will rise as the cost of imports goes down. unless the authorities in beijing are prepared to allow the renminbi to float higher, which they are not, they will have to intervene in the currency markets, but this will make it harder to slow credit growth at home and makes a boom and bust more likely. if on the other hand commodity prices continue to rise, central banks everywhere will come under pressure to raise interest rates. a sharp downward correction in commodity prices looks the likelier option in the short term. every bubble in recent years has had its signature deal that marks the point when the frenzy peaks; the purchase of time warner by aol during the dotcom boom; the rbs takeover of abn amro just as the financial crisis of 2007 was breaking. there are good reasons to believe the trend in commodities is up. the super-cycle in emerging markets is one. the threat of peak oil is another. but upward trends always have dislocations and this looks to be one of those moments. rarely has the old adage "sell in may and go away" seemed more apposite.
world stock markets bounce back on greece bailout european leaders agreed on thursday night to launch a fresh aid package for greece following last year's €110bn bailout, assuming the recession-hit country passes an austerity package next week. britain is to be spared from taking part in the rescue after leaders accepted david cameron's argument that the bailout should be borne by the eurozone. without the final tranche of last year's rescue – €12bn from the eurozone and the imf – greece would be broke by mid-july. most asian markets were also up, with the nikkei in tokyo gaining 0.85% to 9678.71 and hong kong's hang seng rising 1.7% to 22,132.01. the rescue will be provided by greece's euro partners and the international monetary fund, meaning that britain is exempt from the european part of the package. germany had been insisting that the bailout should be partly funded by all 27 eu members, but backed off. the chairman of the eu leaders' summit in brussels, herman van rompuy, emerged after late night talks to announce that, like last year's rescue, the second bailout for greece would not involve any commitment from countries outside the eurozone. earlier this week, chancellor george osborne told fellow eu finance ministers in luxembourg that the uk could not be called upon. cameron reiterated that message over dinner in brussels. cameron said the uk would fulfil its financial obligations as a contributor to any imf support – probably through €1bn in loan guarantees – but it could not be expected to prop up greece via the european financial stability mechanism, which commits all eu member states to provide loan guarantees to a member in economic difficulty. a qualified majority vote of the 27 leaders could have pushed this through against britain's opposition, but a european commission official said this would have been "too divisive". a downing street source told pa: "this is the right outcome for the british taxpayer." the euro rose to $1.4240 after a key german business confidence survey posted a welcome positive surprise. "with so much attention on the periphery of the eurozone, it is easy to overlook that fact that the combination of ireland, greece and portugal could fit into germany more than three times over," said alan clarke, uk and eurozone economist at scotia capital. "the biggest economy in the eurozone is in rude health and that will reassure the hawks on the ecb governing council to continue to tighten monetary policy."
pension reform could trigger stock market chaos, coalition warned the conservatives' leader in local government has warned that the coalition risks disruption to the stock markets should a mass opt-out of the local government pension scheme jeopardise councils' £140bn investment funds. if council employees are not protected, many of the 4.2 million members of the pension scheme could opt out, sending investment funds into negative cash-flow and forcing councils to pull them out of the stock market. eaton's warning comes after lord hutton, the former labour business secretary and architect of the coalition's reforms, warned on thursday ministers that their pension reforms – which include raising contributions, raising the pension age, and moving away from final salary pensions – risk becoming so punitive that people could abandon pension schemes altogether. the treasury said on thursday it was aware of the problems specific to the local government pension scheme, and indicated a solution could be found. "we are looking at the difference of the local government scheme and giving consideration to it," a spokesman said. eaton told the guardian: "if there aren't enough people paying in, there wouldn't be enough for people to take out the other end. it would be a major catastrophe for government. the scheme would collapse. it generates a hell of a lot of money for the economy, they are used as investment funds by local authorities, and it makes a sizeable proportion of the stock market – around £140bn." there are currently 83 separate local government schemes. the government has estimated that the plans could trigger a 1% opt-out, but unions say that up to 50% could leave. eaton said that if as few as 10% leave there would be dire financial consequences. the problem could also be compounded because fewer people will remain in the scheme as local government reduces its workforce. the government is also proposing that people are moved out of the schemes when their service is outsourced. the treasury's comments raise the prospect that some kind of resolution could be reached for the local government scheme. eaton will hand over to her successor at the lga annual conference in birmingham next week. she has been a tory councillor for 25 years and was leader of bradford council from 2000 to 2006. eaton also criticised government ministers' handling of the "big society" project, saying that they had failed to recognise the level of community activism – involving local authorities – that is already underway, partly because politicians are out of touch with local communities. "the government could perhaps be more open to recognising this is already something which is built into our society because lots of it happens and local democracy encourages and facilitates this. i've been on councils for 25 years. all of us of that generation have been busy with the big society since us were elected," she said. "perhaps a lot of people in government who talk about big society haven't experienced it at that level. perhaps they've visited a project, but not had that level of involvement and experience themselves." the lga is due to publish a report by a working group which has been looking at the big society project. it will argue that ministers have failed to tackle bureaucracy which hampers people from volunteering and charities from becoming more involved. eaton said that restrictions on jobseekers' allowance prevented people from committing to volunteering opportunities, and charities were prevented from sharing back-office costs with each other by rules that would force them to pay vat if they did so.
shares tumble on fresh fears for global economy shares fell heavily in the city on thursday as stock markets around the world tumbled, amid fears that the "soft patch" in the global economy will prove longer and deeper than previously expected. with data from britain, the us, china and the eurozone all displaying signs of weakness, the ftse 100 index of leading uk shares closed 98.61 points lower at 5674.38. the cbi prompted fresh concerns in the city that the economy will struggle to maintain the 0.5% growth in the first three months of 2011 into the second quarter, after it said the intense squeeze on living standards meant annual sales volumes in the high street in june fell for the first time in a year. separate data from britain's banks showed consumers and businesses repaying debt. wall street's dow jones industrial average lost more than 200 points in morning trading after downbeat comments on the state of the economy from the federal reserve's chairman, ben bernanke, were underlined by a drop in sales of new homes and a rise in weekly jobless claims. the global sell-off, coupled with continued anxiety about a greek debt default, sent european shares to their lowest level in three months. nick parsons, head of strategy at national australia bank, said the market turbulence had been prompted by bernanke. "he acknowledged that there was a slowdown in the us but put himself in a position where he could do nothing about it. he told markets they were on their own. the selling started on wall street on wednesday and accelerated in european trading yesterday." sentiment in europe was further hit by overnight news of a survey pointing to an unexpectedly sharp slowdown in china's manufacturing sector and a similar study showing that industrial output in the eurozone was faltering. following the hint from the bank of england on wednesday that it was discussing the possible need for a fresh round of electronic money creation (quantitative easing), data from the uk indicated that debt-averse consumers were cutting back on their spending, while businesses were reluctant to invest. sterling fell against the dollar, trading below $1.60 for the first time in three months after the british bankers' association (bba) said individuals paid off £92m in consumer credit during may and lending to non-financial firms contracted by £2.5bn. may's decline in business lending compared to a fall of £0.3bn in april and an average drop of £1.3bn in the previous six months. bba figures showed approvals for new mortgages edging up from the seven-month low reached in april, but at just over 30,000, still almost 15% down on a year earlier. simon rubinsohn, chief economist at the royal institution of chartered surveyors, said: "the data released this morning provides no evidence that the mortgage logjam is easing. indeed, the number of new mortgages issued in may was pretty much in line with the average for the first five months of the year. significantly, it was also close to the average for the second half of last year." rubinsohn added: "it is hard to see market turnover picking up in the near term. the cbi blamed rising prices and weak earnings growth for the rapid end to the boost provided to high-street spending by the warm weather and the royal wedding. the employers' organisation said 33% of retailers had reported an annual increase in sales in june but 34% had said they were down year on year. the resulting rounded balance of -2 points was the first negative finding since june 2010 and compared to a reading of +18 in may. judith mckenna, chair of the cbi distributive trades panel and asda's chief financial officer, said: "after a year of growth, high street sales volumes fizzled out in june. consumers are really feeling the pinch as disposable incomes continue to be squeezed by rising prices and weak earnings growth. "the cost of living is increasing and petrol prices have risen particularly sharply. shoppers are budgeting hard and cutting back on their discretionary spending, such as on clothes and big ticket household goods. "household budgets are likely to remain tight over the coming months, with inflation edging higher as increases in domestic gas and electricity prices take effect."
world stock markets suffer heavy losses world stock markets suffered another bout of heavy losses on thursday, driven down by fears over the eurozone debt crisis and fresh evidence that global economic growth is faltering. a flood of poor economic news from the us, china, the uk and the eurozone helped to push shares down sharply, and send the euro to record lows. the oil price also slumped, wiping more than $8 off the cost of a barrel of brent crude at one point, as extra supplies were released in an effort to prevent the world economy stagnating. "everyone is running away from any sort of risk today," explained david jones, chief market strategist at ig index. "the big cloud is greece, but every day something else comes along [to knock confidence]." reports from america that talks to raise the us debt ceiling had collapsed also alarmed traders. the euro lost nearly two cents against the dollar, touching a low of $1.4133. the pound also took a pummelling in the foreign exchange markets, falling by more than one cent against the dollar to $1.594. economists said that the minutes of the bank of england's last meeting, released on wednesday, had shown that threadneedle street was taking a more dovish approach to monetary policy. uk interest rates may now not rise until 2012. "after a year of growth, high street sales volumes fizzled out in june," said judith mckenna, chair of the cbi's distributive trades panel. "consumers are really feeling the pinch as disposable incomes continue to be squeezed by rising prices and weak earnings growth." in america, the number of new jobless claims rose by 9,000 to 429,000, confounding expectations of a weekly fall to 415,000. china reported that its manufacturing output has barely grown so far in june, an indication that economic growth may have slowed significantly in recent weeks. this was followed by data from the eurozone, where manufacturing and services output slowing sharply to a 20-month low in june. "tighter fiscal policy is increasingly kicking in across the region, the ecb has started raising interest rates and sovereign debt tensions have intensified, centred on greece's woes," said howard archer of ihs global insight. the oil price fell after the international energy agency announced that it would release 60m barrels of oil on to the market, at a rate of 2m barrels per day. the move was criticised by members of the opec cartel, who called the move unjustifiable. the cost of a barrel of brent crude fell as low as $105.72, down more than $8, while us crude dropped to $90 a barrel.
vince cable appoints top economist to review uk equity markets vince cable will step up his attack on the city's blinkered focus on short-term profits as he appoints a "long-termism" tsar and announces a wide-ranging review of the uk's equity markets. at a speech to the association of british insurers (abi), cable will announce the appointment of john kay – a doyen of the academic business world who has run the institute for fiscal studies and been a professor at oxford university and the london business school – to lead the uk equity markets review, which will report early next year. the review will look at ways to ensure that companies operate in the long-term interests of britain's shareholders, who own much of uk plc through their pension and insurance investments and yet have little say in how these corporations are run. at the same time, hedge funds and traders are able to turn a quick profit, with no thought for the broader implications. "the growing demand for early returns has serious implications for investment in longer-term projects, such as improvements to infrastructure networks or the development of new technologies, which by their very nature only produce a return over a period of many years," cable will tell the abi's biennial conference on wednesday. "such projects may not fit with the quick-buck mentality that appears to be gaining in popularity, but they are essential in facilitating the uk's long-term growth. so, too, is a rational focus on long-term value rather than short-term profits. "in particular, we need to examine how the equity investment regime can be recalibrated to support the long-term interests of companies and the underlying beneficiaries such as pension fund members. "the financial crisis has raised justifiable concerns about whether there are systemic flaws in the way companies are owned and managed in the uk … about executives being given incentives to pursue strategies not in the long-term interest of their shareholders, about shareholders allowing takeovers that destroy value. and, at times, it seems like the ultimate owners of the assets were powerless to intervene, because of the complexity of the investment chain." among other things, the review will examine how to make institutional investors more engaged with the running of the companies in which they hold shares, in part to ensure that the views of the person on the street are better represented. it will also seek to bring more transparency to companies' decision-making processes. kay, who founded oxford university's said business school and the london economics consultancy and is currently a visiting professor at the london school of economics, said: "i believe this is probably the most important issue in industrial policy today. "equity markets are a principal mechanism of control and accountability for boards and senior managers and a means by which individuals and households provide for retirement and other long-term financial goals. "the review will examine how these capital market disciplines contribute to the achievement of such goals and to the community more generally by enhancing the competitiveness and long-term performance of british business." elsewhere in his speech, cable is expected to say that it is the responsibility of shareholders and remuneration committees to challenge unacceptable pay deals more vigorously. cable's comments about equity markets are the most concrete he has made since he declared war on "corporate short-termism" in september 2010, when he kicked off a consultation on a range of issues such as takeovers and executive pay after concluding that they posed "an increasing problem for our economy". that consultation ended this year – although its results have yet to be published – and cable is expected to announce several more initiatives over the coming weeks and months based on its findings.
testosterone and high finance do not mix: so bring on the women the reason for this was simple, he suggested. he felt that the committee, for all its considered judgment, had not understood, from the outset, a single, pivotal word. that word was "unprecedented". though the inquiry had set out in the belief that the crash was an event different in kind to anything that had gone before, it nevertheless proceeded to judge it in the terms of previous crashes. what it failed to do, in lewis's eyes, was this: it neglected to look for the things that might have changed in wall street or the city, the things that might have made individuals on the trading floors act in ways that were seen to be entirely, unprecedentedly, reckless. when he came to consider these things himself, lewis felt that perhaps chief among the unprecedented novelties was this one: women. "of course," he observed, with tongue firmly in cheek, "the women who flooded into wall street firms before the crisis weren't typically permitted to take big financial risks. as a rule they remained in the background, as 'helpmates'. but their presence clearly distorted the judgment of male bond traders – though the mechanics of their influence remains unexplored by the commission. they may have compelled the male risk-takers to 'show off for the ladies', for instance, or perhaps they merely asked annoying questions and undermined the risk-takers' confidence. at any rate, one sure sign of the importance of women in the crisis is the market's subsequent response: to purge women from senior wall street roles…" though those of us males who have an uncanny sense of money always slipping through our fingers might anecdotally believe this to be true, i was surprised to hear it stated as a fact. it seemed to beg a number of questions. first, if women really are better at making these judgments, why is it always men, still, without exception, who troop out before select committees to explain where it all went wrong, and how they weren't really to blame. and second, would it really be different if women were in charge? you don't have to look too far into the science to realise that lewis's claim, in broad terms, stands up. the first definitive study in this area appeared in 2001 in a celebrated paper that broke down the investment decisions made with a brokerage firm by 35,000 households in america. the study, called, inevitably, "boys will be boys" found that while men were confident in making multiple changes to investments, their annual returns were, on average, a full percentage point below those of women who invested the family finances, and nearly half as much again inferior to single women. to argue this case, you would probably need more than just behavioural evidence; you might need to understand some of the mechanisms which produced the trillion-dollar bad decision-making that led to what happened in 2008. in recent years, and particularly since the crash, a new science of such decision-making – neuroeconomics – has become fashionable in universities and beyond. it proposes the idea that you will create a better understanding of how people make economic choices if you bring to bear advances in neurobiology and brain chemistry and behavioural psychology alongside traditional economic maths models. not surprisingly, neuroeconomics has plenty to say about the question of whether decision-making, in high-pressure situations, divides on gender lines. the problem is that most of the scenarios used to investigate this divide are artificial. it is one thing attaching someone to an mri scanner and telling him or her that a million pounds rests on their decision in a game; it is another when that person actually stands to lose a million pounds. only one study, as far as i could discover, has had access to the brain chemistry, the neural biology, of young men actually working on trading floors. but the results it produced were nonetheless startling. the study was led by a pair of cambridge researchers. one, joe herbert, is a professor of neuroscience, and the other, john coates, a research fellow in neuroscience and finance. herbert, a specialist in the effect of hormones on depression, was fascinated to put some of his theories about the role of chemicals on decision making into practice. the curious thing about banks, he told me, "was that they know all about computers and systems and markets but they know next to nothing about the human machine sitting in the chair in front of screens making decisions. nothing. we aimed to correct that just slightly." it was coates, though, who made the experiment possible. having met herbert at his lab in cambridge, i met coates in a pub in west london. he had a special advantage in gaining access to bond traders' brains, he explained: he used to possess one himself. sharp-eyed and fit-looking, coates retains the intensity of a man who used to run a trading desk on wall street during the dotcom bubble. he started off at goldman sachs and went on to deutsche bank. after some years trading, and making a lot of money out of a lot of money, he became increasingly fascinated by the way, during the dotcom years, the traders he worked alongside radically changed behaviour. they became, he says, "euphoric and delusional. they were taking far more risks, and were putting up trades with terrible risk-reward profiles". the dotcom was fun, in a way, he suggests; it was like the roaring 20s. "but i don't think anyone looks back on the housing bubble and laughs." coates was a relatively cautious trader himself, but there had been times when he too felt this surge, this euphoria: "when i had been making a lot of money myself, i felt unbelievably powerful," he recalls. "you carry yourself like a strutting rooster, and you can't help it. michael lewis talked about 'big swinging dicks', tom wolfe talked about 'masters of the universe' – they were right. a trader on a winning streak acts exactly that way." the second thing that coates noticed was even more revelatory to him. "i noticed that women did not buy into the dotcom bubble at all," he says. "you couldn't find one who did, hardly. and that seemed like a pretty cool fact to me." with this cool fact in mind, coates began splitting his time between his trading desk and the rockefeller university in manhattan, which is perhaps the world's leading institute for the study of brain chemicals. there he started to become interested in steroids, and in particular something called "the winner effect". this occurs when two males enter a competition and their testosterone levels rise, increasing their muscle mass and the ability of the blood to carry oxygen. it also enhances their appetite for risk. much of this testosterone stays in the system of the winner of a competition, while the loser's testosterone melts away fast; in evolutionary terms, the loser retires to the woods to lick his wounds. in the next round of competition, though, the winner already has high levels of testosterone, so he starts with an advantage, and this continues to reinforce itself. "steroids," coates explains, "like most chemicals in your body, display what is called an inverted u-shaped response curve." that is to say, when you have low levels of them you lack vitality, and do very poorly at mental and physical tasks. but as the levels rise you get sharper and more focused until you reach an optimum. the key thing is this, however: "if you keep winning, your testosterone level goes past that peak and sliding down the other side. you start doing stupid things. when that happens to animals, they go out in the open too much. they pick too many fights. they neglect parenting duties. and they patrol areas that are too large." in short, they behave like traders on a roll; they get cocky. coates became convinced that this winner effect was what he observed in bullish trading markets, and what ended up dramatically distorting them. it also explained why women were mostly immune to the euphoria, because they had only 10% of the testosterone of men. what struck him most, though, was that, for all the literature about financial instability, economics, psychology, game theory, no one had ever clinically looked at a trader who was caught up in a bubble. coates wrote a research proposal. he came back to cambridge where he had done his first degree, and because of his background eventually gained access, with herbert, to a major city bond-dealing floor in london. they tested the traders for two hormones in particular, testosterone and cortisol (the anxiety induced, depressive "stress hormone"), and mapped their levels over a period of weeks against the success or failure of trades, individual profit and loss. coates had imagined the experiment to be a preliminary study but the correlations he found – for evidence of irrationality produced by the winner effect and its converse – was "an absolute dream". they not only discovered that a trader's morning testosterone level could be used to predict his day's profitability. they also found that a trader's cortisol rose with both the variance of his trading results and the volatility of the market. the results pointed to a further possibility: as volatility increased, the hormones seemed to shift risk preferences and even affect a trader's ability to engage in rational choice. though the sample was limited, and suitable caution was needed in claiming too much, the correlations suggested that over a certain peak, testosterone impaired the risk assessment of traders. "and cortisol," he suggests, "was in some ways even more interesting than testosterone. we thought cortisol would rise when traders lost money," coates says, making individuals more than usually cautious, "but actually it was going up incredibly when they were faced with just uncertainty. the stress hormones were switching over to emergency states all the time. there was an optimal level but these stress hormones can linger for months. then you get all sorts of really pathological behaviours. if you are constantly prepared for high tension it affects your brain, and it causes you to recall stressful memories and become exaggeratedly risk-averse and kind of helpless." unfortunately this particular study ended in june 2007, before the full effect of the crisis, but its implications account, coates believes, for some of what he subsequently heard from the trading floor. "if cortisol goes beyond a certain point, then it may become very difficult for traders to assess any risk at all. these guys are not built to handle adversity that well. there is an observable condition called 'learned helplessness', which if you are submitting to great stress over a long period of time makes you give up suddenly. lab animals develop it: you open the cage and they won't escape. traders have it too. they just slump in their chairs. in the crisis there were classic arbitrage opportunities as the markets were falling. free money. but traders would sit there staring at the numbers and not touching it." since then, coates has partly been working on the other strand of his original hypothesis, looking at the brain chemistry of women working in the markets. because of the small sample sizes he has to work with – there were only three women out of 250 traders on the floor he first tested – the detail of that is far from complete, and he is properly reluctant to draw conclusions. what he will go so far as to say, though, is this. "central bankers, often brilliant people, spend their life trying to stop a bubble or prevent a crash, and they are spectacularly unsuccessful at it. and i think it is because, at the centre of the market, you have these guys either ripped on testosterone or overwhelmed by cortisol so that they become completely price insensitive." coates wrote a couple of articles after that research was published, suggesting that, if the winner effect was right, it was possible that bubbles were an entirely young male phenomenon. and if that were the case, then the best way of preventing boom and bust was to have more women and more older men – less in thrall to hormones – in the markets. "we know that opinion diversity is crucial to stable markets. what no one talks about is endocrine diversity, a diversity of hormones. the billion-dollar question is how to achieve it." to most experienced, male, investment bankers, of course, this sounds like fighting talk. an old friend of mine, who traded his cambridge english degree for an extremely lucrative life as a bond dealer, offered this, when i presented coates's evidence to him. "it would be nice to think that having more female traders on the floor would make for less volatility," he said, "but that's wishful thinking. financial markets are now global, so while we in the west might decide not to chase trends or react instinctively to breaking news because there are mature mothering types in boardrooms and sitting on risk committees, the rest of the world will, and our banks would lose out." and that's not all. "many of the women i know who have managed money or have put capital at risk for banks have tended to be even more aggressive with risk than their male counterparts, as if perhaps to compensate for their supposed diffidence. fighting their way through a male-dominated environment to a position in which they can invest/punt/ risk-manage, many women develop an ultra-masculine persona so as to be thought of as ballsy…" just a cursory glance through some of the recent spate of books and blogs written by young women who have worked in the city and lived to tell the tale would certainly seem to support this observation. melanie berliet, who worked as one of the only female traders in wall street, set the tone in her confessional blog: "if anything," she observed, "my token status gave me an extra thrill. i enjoyed being called a 'fucking dullard' or being instructed, patronisingly, to 'remove head from ass', because my reaction – to grin rather than cry – impressed the guys. i loved their attention and the daily opportunities to prove that i fitted in. what separated me from my colleagues was physical: my 5ft 9in, 120lb frame, my long, blondish hair – and my vagina. i had two options with my boss: trade sexual banter or resist. typically, i chose the former. like most traders, my base salary wasn't terribly high—$75,000 at the start of my third year. the bonus was all, and getting the right number rested on one thing, as i saw it: my willingness to promote my boss's fantasy of fucking me…" john coates doesn't believe the caricature, or at least he believes that in the upper reaches of banks, things have moved on. "a lot of my former colleagues are running divisions, or whole banks," he says. "i don't buy the sexist macho argument. the big investment banks desperately want women traders. but when they interview women who are qualified, the women don't want to do it…" neuroeconomics also starts to provide the answers to some of the reasons for that. muriel niederle is a professor at stanford university, looking at gender differences in risk decisions. over a period of years niederle has developed clear evidence for the theory that though in non-competitive situations women demonstrate an advantage over men in making investment decisions, they either shy away completely from making those decisions in intensely competitive environments, or they respond less well than men to competition with very short-term high intensity and results-driven focus. this pattern is set, niederle proves, from a very young age (and no doubt has a good deal to do with the differential presence of troublesome testosterone). joe herbert told me at his lab in cambridge: "what is clear is that there are neurological differences between the sexes. women, in very general terms, are less competitive, and less concerned with the status of being successful. if you want to make women more present, you have to remember two things: the world they are coming into is a man-made world. the financial world. so, either they become surrogate men… or you change the world." the country that has attempted most radically to change this balance is norway, where a conservative minister imposed a quota of 40% female directors in every boardroom. most of the data suggests the initiative has been a great success, both culturally and commercially (though some, male, commentators argue that the turnaround is better explained by the spike in oil prices). it would be hard to find many people in the city, even among women, who would favour quotas, though that argument can be made. john coates, wearing his dealmaker's hat, suggests a practical solution. "the question is not whether men are risk takers and women are risk-averse. it is more what kind of risk do they want to take? my hunch is that women don't like high-frequency trading, so what you have to do is change the accounting period over which they are judged." he then gives me a potted description of how things remain: "say you have two traders. one trader makes $20m a year for five years, of which she might typically pocket a couple of million a year herself. at the end of five years she has made the bank the best part of $90m. another trader makes $100m a year for four years. they don't want that guy to go off to a hedge fund so they let him take home $20m a year. but then in the fifth year – because of the winner effect – he loses $500m. that is essentially what happened in the financial crash. the bank has lost $100m and the trader has gained $80m. if you were judging these things over a five-year period, then you can see which person you would hire." but, of course, that would require a very different idea of markets, and of money, to the one that is currently desperately being defended and remade. it would certainly require a greater degree of "endocrinal diversity". still, the next time you hear someone suggest that things are getting back to "normal" in the city, and that we should at all costs start believing in exponential growth again, at least you can look him in the eye and state that you think his hormones might be playing up. ■ if groups of young men are shown pornographic pictures of women and then asked to choose between safe and risky investments, compared with men shown non-pornographic pictures they choose far riskier portfolios. ■ our brains are designed to seek out novelty, but too much information can overwhelm them; we are generally better at assessing risk when listening to bach than with the chatter of tv news. ■ men's brains tend to shut down after they have proposed a deal, waiting for the response. scans show that women brains continue to be active, analysing whether they have done the right thing. ■ humans are the only animals that can delay gratification, a function of the prefrontal cortex. however, the prefrontal cortex only matures after the age of 30, and later in men than women. before that, we are more likely to seek immediate gratification. ■ our brains reward social interaction with the release of a chemical called oxytocin. it makes us feel good when we follow the herd. stock market bubbles are one likely result of this. ■ our brains are wired for human oxytocin-mediated empathy (or home). we are biologically stimulated to love (or hate) what is most familiar to us. we are built to form attachments, to value what we own more than what we do not own. this fact skews the rationality of all our investment decisions.
prada cuts share flotation price despite the glamour surrounding the initial public offering (ipo), which included a 15-minute fashion show for top fund managers in hong kong, the maker of miu miu dresses and luxury handbags priced its shares at hk$39.50 (£3.13), at the bottom end of the range set by the company earlier this week. as a result the ipo raised £1.3bn, rather than the £1.6bn originally mooted, with the listing valuing the company at £8bn. "luxury demand is very self explanatory and it makes a lot of sense for companies like samsonite and prada to list in hong kong, but we're talking about quite a volatile market these days," said selina sia, head of consumer research at mirae asset in hong kong. "the equity market has its own life and may not have anything to do with reality in luxury goods markets." prada is yet to confirm the outcome of the share sale but the offering is said to have been over three times covered by institutional investors. the company sold 423.3m shares, or a 16.5% stake, raising hk$16.72bn (£1.3bn). the stock will start trading on 24 june. mario prada started the company selling leather bags, trunks and silverware to the european elite from his store in milan's galleria vittorio emanuele in 1913 but it is his granddaughter miuccia prada and her husband patrizio bertelli who have turned it into a bona fide luxury label with more than 300 stores around the world. the decision to list in hong kong was deemed controversial in italy, but the company said it made sense given china's relevance as a major economy and its voracious appetite for luxury products. china's consumption of luxury goods is growing at nearly 20% a year, with the market expected to be worth £17bn by 2015.
short-sellers bet on glencore falling the shares, which have consistently traded below their 530p flotation price, lost about 3% on the announcement and then slumped by almost 5% on wednesday – a day that saw a 13% increase in the number of shares being lent out for shortselling, according to the market analysis firm data explorers. on thursday, the price closed up 2.8p at 475.8p. one expert on short-selling, who declined to be named, said: "a 13% rise in one day is high. "while only around a quarter of the shares available to be lent are currently out on loan, the figure is going up." short-selling is the practice of selling shares that have been borrowed from a third party, with the intention of buying identical assets back at a later date to return to the lender. if the share price falls between the sale and repurchase, the short seller makes a profit. the practice can put extra pressure on share prices. meanwhile, glencore suffered a further knock on thursday after analysts at mf global issued a sell note on the company and predicted that the share price could slump as low as 390p. the note argued that the company was similar to the main japanese commodity traders such as sumitomo, mitsubishi and mitsui, and did not deserve a premium, adding: "it is expensive, whether considered as a brokerage, a miner or a trading house." glencore's share price will eventually be crucial as the firm has made no secret of its intention to use its equity as currency for acquisitions, particularly the mining firm xstrata, in which it holds a 34% stake. the price could come under more pressure after friday when the "stabilisation period" – designed to shore up early trading – ends. glencore reported a 47% leap in first-quarter net profits on tuesday in its maiden results to the stock market, but the figures failed to impress city analysts, who were alarmed by concerns over the performance of the group's trading division, including a 20% drop in profits from metals and minerals. the results triggered a tricky week for the chief executive, ivan glasenberg, who has seen the value of his personal stake in the business slump by more than £426m to £5.2bn since tuesday. glasenberg was one of five glencore employees to own a stake in the firm worth more than £1bn.
samsonite shares tumble in hong kong debut samsonite, the american luxury luggage company, has suffered a bruising first day as a public company. shares in the 101-year-old suitcase manufacturer dropped 8% on its hong kong stock exchange debut, despite listing at the bottom end of the company's price range. the shares, which had fallen by more than 10% at one point, closed at hk$13.38 after floating at hk$14.50. the offering of 671m shares – or 48% of the company – raised hk$9.73bn (£770m), below expectations of £900m. samsonite, which derives its name from samson the biblical strongman, had earlier estimated an flotation price range of hk$13.50-hk$17.50 per share. chief executive tim parker was upbeat about samsonite's future despite the disappointing reception. "we're extremely pleased to be listing [our] shares here," he said. "people in china are travelling more and more and when they travel they need more suitcases." samsonite's poor reception weighed heavily on prada, the italian luxury clothing line, which will announce the pricing of its ipo on friday; it is expected to lower its price range to between hk$39.50-hk$42.25 a share compared to its earlier indicative range of hk$36.50-hk$48. the new lower price range means the maximum it can raise when it joins the hang seng index next week is $2.3bn, compared to an earlier maximum target of $2.6bn. when it debuts next friday prada will become the first italian company to be listed in hong kong: however, many retail investor have been put off by the prospect of paying italian capital gains tax and dividend withholding tax. alfred chan, chief dealer at cheer pearl investments, said: "we received little demand from our [retail] clients for the [prada] shares. it might be the 12.5% tax that scared them away, and the pricing itself was expensive when it compared with its peers. unlike institutions, our retail clients hold the shares for a much shorter term." daniel so, an analyst at sun hung kai financial, told reuters: "hong kong investors are not used to this type of tax, particularly the capital gains tax. some investors may not choose prada, since there are other alternatives for high-end luxury stocks, or companies that play to the chinese consumer story."
greek debt crisis: the key questions answered greece was handed a €110bn (£95bn) bailout deal just over a year ago. that was agreed after the financial markets lost faith in the country's ability to repay its debts, forcing european leaders and the international monetary fund (imf) to step in and guarantee funding for the next few years. in return, greece committed to wide-ranging public-sector cutbacks to bring its deficit into line. analysts believe that a second bailout could be at least as large as the original package, perhaps made up of €60bn of additional funding and €60bn from asset sales. however, the country already has a national debt of €330bn, and is expected to run up a deficit of 9.5% of gross domestic product this year – money that needs to be borrowed from somewhere. it should ensure that greece would be fully funded until 2014. policymakers hope that by then it will have brought its budget deficit down to manageable levels. however, some observers have claimed that it would simply "kick the can down the road", delaying an inevitable default. a greek default is now being openly described as europe's "lehman brothers moment". that's because so much of its debt is held by european financial institutions. analysts believe greece may need to restructure anything between 40% and 80% of its debt pile, which could place massive losses on the banks. there is also the danger that contagion could again ripple out from athens to ireland and portugal, which are already implementing their own austerity programmes in return for financial help. new democracy, the main conservative opposition in greece, argues that papandreou is mishandling the situation by cutting too deeply. instead, new democracy favours a more aggressive privatisation programme, including the sale of greece largest electricity producer, ppc, which would generate the funds to avoid some tax rises. the maastricht treaty explicitly prohibits a eurozone country from leaving the euro. some observers, though, have suggested that greece could take a "temporary leave of absence" instead. another possibility is to split the euro, with weaker members switching to a new common currency that is worth less than the original single currency. this has led to a high-level standoff between the european central bank, which implacably opposes any "haircut" – or reduction in the value of assets – being imposed on creditors, and germany. not according to the credit-ratings agencies, which argue that tinkering with bonds in this way would be classed as a technical default. another option is a straight "rollover", in which greece would repay bonds as they matured and then immediately borrow the money back. again, the ratings agencies question whether this would be genuinely voluntary. greece has borrowed from a wide group of investors. many of them are banks in the eu. others are the sovereign wealth funds of asian and middle eastern countries. the ecb has recently become another major lender to greece as part of the bailout that occurred last year. a default would hurt french and german banks in particular. they were some of the biggest lenders, holding more than two-thirds of the greek government bonds in international lenders' hands at the end of last year. german banks held $22.7bn (£14bn) of greek government debt, while french banks held $15bn. italy and japan, by contrast, have lived with huge debts for decades because their exchequers have borrowed from domestic savers. german treasury officials want all 27 eu countries to take part in the next bailout. the first bailout was limited to the 16 eurozone countries. if greece received another €100bn, the uk would need to find up to €15bn of the total. the money being promised to greece is offered in the form of repayable loans, not handouts, so there is only an economic impact if the greek government reneges on its debts some time in the future. the purpose of the bailout is to prevent a default. we lent ireland an extra £7bn to top up the eu and imf funds and we expect to get that back with interest. some economists believe greece and ireland could follow iceland, which is refusing to repay the uk a £2bn "loan".
greek crisis hits world markets in london, the ftse 100 had shed almost 100 points by 1pm to 5645.8, a drop of 1.7%. just three shares were higher, as the blue-chip index hit its lowest level since 17 march. the euro also suffered, hitting a three-week low against the dollar, as traders warned that a greek default would have catastrophic consequences for the global markets. cameron peacock of ig markets said: "with greek sovereign debt squarely back on the agenda, risk appetite among traders is very much off and equities are coming under sustained pressure as a result. "a new government is set to be formed in athens today against a backdrop of civil unrest and the big concern is that politics gets in the way of the second tranche of the bailout, in turn forcing a debt restructuring in the eurozone," peacock added. george papandreou, the greek prime minister, suffered another blow on thursday when two members of his government resigned, including former deputy finance minister george floridis. floridis criticised both papandreou and greece's opposition leaders, accusing them of putting party politics ahead of the needs of the nation. papandreou is expected to announce a wide-ranging cabinet reshuffle later on thursday, having failed to unite greece's political parties behind his hugely unpopular austerity programme. bond traders continued to view greek debt as hugely risky. the yield, or effective interest rate, on greek two-year bonds hit 29.639%, a new record. the cost of insuring greek debt against collapse spiked, with the five-year credit default swap leaping 174 basis points to a record high of 1,900, according to markit. that means it would cost €1.9m per year to insure €10m of greek debt. "the impasse within the institutions of the eu, as well as the political and social upheaval within greece, has roiled the markets," said gavan nolan, director of credit research at markit. european leaders have been debating their next move in the greek crisis for several weeks, after it became clear that the country needs a second bailout. however, it is unclear how a plan can be drawn up that will save greece from default. one option is to restructure of some of its €330bn debt, with lenders agreeing to defer repayments. credit rating agencies, though, have warned that such a plan would be treated as a default. gary jenkins, head of fixed income research at evolution securities, did not believe that the debt "reprofiling" was feasible. "i still fail to see why an investor would want to agree to extend maturities rather than get paid back in full and on time," said jenkins. "if the choice is extend or default then it could be argued that it is not a voluntary decision and certainly the rating agencies will regard it as a default." earlier, ecb governing council member nout wellink predicted that the european bailout fund should be doubled to €1.5tn, to stave off the risk of a new greek bailout triggering renewed crisis in ireland and portugal. "if you take these risks, you need to build a safety net," wellink told dutch newspaper het financieele dagblad. "if ratings agencies see a rollover [of greek debt] as a partial default, contagion to other peripheral eurozone countries will occur."
glencore fails to run smoothly maybe the volatility would have been even more severe without the bank's efforts. but when shares fall stabilisation managers always argue that they are not there to provide an artificial prop. fair enough, but what is their role? the exercise seems pointless.
bank watchdog paul fisher warns of risk from etfs financial regulators should be alert to the potential for destabilising asset bubbles posed by new financial products that are growing in demand as investors seek higher returns in a low interest rate environment, said paul fisher, one of the bank's senior watchdogs. although markets had been on the mend since the financial crisis in 2008, the eurozone debt crisis, coupled with uncertainty about the economic recovery and the progress of banking regulation, could undermine efforts to rebuild the financial system on a more sustainable footing, fisher said. he saw little evidence of "excessive risk-taking on a generalised basis" across the financial system. but he warned: "the intelligence we have gathered during 2011, notwithstanding the recent pull-back in june, has flagged a number of pockets of increasing risk appetite and a few specific markets which have been showing signs of excess." britain's new financial policy committee (fpc), which is housed in the bank and counts fisher as a member, voiced fears at its first meeting last week about the increasing popularity of etfs, which it described as being shrouded in "opacity and complexity". etfs, which track specially created market indexes, are being used as investors try to bolster returns. the market has grown quickly and is estimated to be worth $300bn (£190bn). the fpc said it was concerned that etfs "could become a source of risk to the system as the market evolves". sir mervyn king, governor of the bank, described etfs as a "contributory factor" to the "tangled web" of risk in the financial system. fisher told a gathering of institutional investors: "the macro-prudential concern is that the reach for yield encourages financial innovation and growth in some parts of the financial system where the risks are not well understood, especially if it leads to greater interconnectedness within the banking system." he said: "this is one area which is likely to warrant further attention and analysis by the fpc in due course." the warning came as bank of england figures showed a distinct lack of appetite among british businesses and households to borrow money. the bank's credit conditions survey showed that lending over the past three months was largely flat. a small increase in demand for house purchase borrowing reflects the subdued nature of the housing market, which showed a modest rise in values last month after a fall in may, according to the nationwide building society. the main area of strong growth in demand was for buy-to-let mortgages, said the bank. in its monthly survey, it said the popularity of buy-to-let purchases had risen "substantially in the second quarter and was expected to increase in the third quarter". demand among small and medium-sized businesses also increased, though larger firms, which are known to be flush with cash, had little requirement to borrow.
london stock exchange becomes takeover target although maple's offer for tmx was worth more than the lse's and offered a "canadian solution", its merger plan could be blocked on competition grounds. tmx said a majority of shareholder proxy votes supported the lse merger resolution. "however, it is clear that the two-thirds threshold required to approve the merger would not have been achieved." rolet said: "we are clearly disappointed that, despite a majority of both lse and tmx group shareholders voting for our recommended merger, the two-thirds approval threshold for tmx group shareholders was not met and hence the merger will now not proceed." he added: "our group is in good shape and financially robust. whilst the merger with tmx group was an exciting opportunity for lse, we continue to see other significant growth opportunities." in terminating the merger agreement, tmx has agreed to pay a $10m (£6.3m) break fee to the lse, and a further $29m if, within 12 months, it merges with maple. simon maughan, an analyst at broker mf global, said: "the failure of the tmx deal will leave the lse a target as investors have bought into the stock recently in the belief the tmx bid will fail and the lse will end up on the block." arnaud giblat at ubs said there was an obvious candidate waiting for the london exchange should the lse's offer for tmx fail: "nasdaq seems to want to bulk up and the lse fits the bill." canada's main opposition party argued the lse/tmx deal was not in the public interest and demanded the government hold a public inquiry. the left-leaning new democratic party said the arrangement, as structured, "was flawed and would lead to a foreign takeover of canada's capital markets". it urged the federal government, which has a majority of seats in the legislature, to refrain from giving the deal its "rubber-stamp" approval. under canadian law, any foreign acquisition or investment over c$312m (£200m) requires federal government approval and must pass a test ensuring it provides a net benefit to the country. tmx operates cash and derivative markets for equities, fixed income and energy and owns both the toronto and montreal exchanges.
betfair's flotation is full of holes second, betfair would have "the flexibility to react to a developing and consolidating online betting and gaming industry". in other words, it would be able to buy businesses by paying in shares. in practice, it can't: investors who bought at £13 a share would protest if betfair printed equity at 771p, wednesday's share price. third, a public listing would "assist in the incentivisation and retention of key management and employees". oh dear: chief executive david yu said this week he wants to leave. fourth, flotation would "provide ongoing flexibility and liquidity for existing shareholders." well, yes, they are free to sell shares. but big shareholders, such as softbank and the founders, would risk doing even more damage to the share price if they tried to offload large quantities. flotation, then, has not done what it was supposed to. some £20m has been spent on the lmax share-betting platform and another £10m will follow. the launch is described as a "mixed success", a generous interpretation given that sign-ups are "significantly below expectations". sports betting in the us is a more promising prospect, but it's early days. meanwhile, european regulators continue to drag their heels on exchange betting. time to postpone dreams of global domination, then, and sit back and enjoy the cash-generative qualities of the core business at home? betfair is not talking that language – but the share price might improve if it did.
betfair to buy back £50m shares months after its flotation betfair, the struggling betting group, has unveiled one of the swiftest share buybacks in city memory as it disclosed its first full-year results as a public company. the betting exchange said it planned to re-purchase £50m shares from investors just nine months after its flotation, which has subsequently seen the company shed 41% of its value after a series of underwhelming announcements, regulatory concerns and management departures. share buybacks are a popular tactic for mature businesses and are typically employed when companies cannot think of efficient ways of deploying spare cash. however, betfair was sold to investors in october as a company that had strong growth opportunities. when asked if the management had run out of ideas about how to grow, finance director stephen morana insisted: "not at all. we are investing huge amounts in this business. we announced this at our initial public offering. this was published in the prospectus. it complies exactly with that." the move to buoy the share price comes after betfair confirmed that david yu, its embattled chief executive, would be leaving the company following the group's troubled introduction to the public markets. it also follows a string of unscheduled departures, including those of mathias entenmann, chief product and services officer; robin osmond, chief executive of financial betting exchange lmax; and matt carter, director of architecture, research and prototyping. betfair's own polling of employees revealed that staff believed its management was lacking direction. morana, who many employees say trumps yu for knowledge of the betting industry, has now ruled himself out as a potential successor – although most watchers had already expected the company to make an external appointment, possibly a high-profile city figure, in attempt to halt the share price slide. the latest intrigue came as the company announced its full-year figures, which showed pre-tax profits up 49% to £26.6m on revenues up 15% at £393.3m. however, the numbers were flattered by last year's football world cup and the company conceded: "revenue growth during [the financial year] could have been stronger but we have delivered a significant improvement in margin resulting in profitability for the year above expectations." james hollins, a leisure analyst at evolution securities, added: "bears will focus on fourth-quarter revenue growth of just 3% and [first-quarter] revenues declining year on year, reflecting [a] tough comparison against the world cup. we expect continued difficult first-half trading, although superior returns on marketing spend and product development should support both future top-line growth." espirito santo analyst geetanjali sharma, who advises clients to sell betfair shares, added: "we are disappointed by the revenue trends. we also anticipate a period of uncertainty as the search for a ceo begins." the company added that it would invest in its lmax financial share trading platform for another 12 months, putting in no more than £10m on top of the £20m already spent. the venture, which many had warned would struggle to compete with existing spreadbetting platforms, has failed to catch on, despite the backing of investment bank goldman sachs.
farmville creator zynga plans $2bn ipo this week the four-year-old gaming firm is expected to become the biggest internet flotation since google, following sky-high valuations in recent weeks for linkedin and the chinese facebook', renren. on last year's revenues, a $20bn market cap would value the company at 23 times last year's sales – a higher multiple than the recent big-money technology flotations. shares in linkedin have soared since it went public last month. the social network for professionals is now valued at $8bn after floating with 2010 revenues of $243m and a profit of $15.4m. renren has a market cap of $2.98bn after raising $743m with its new york stock exchange debut. morgan stanley is expected to be the lead underwriter on the zynga ipo, along with goldman sachs, bank of america merrill lynch, barclays and jp morgan.
john pluthero takes control at cable & wireless after chief executive quits john pluthero, the chairman of cable & wireless worldwide, has been forced to take day-to-day control of the stricken telecoms business after the sudden resignation of the chief executive. after a woeful 15 months leading the public company that has included three profit warnings and a share price that has halved, jim marsh is to leave the group with a payoff equal to his £650,000-a-year salary. in a move likely to irk investors, pluthero was immediately awarded a £75,000 the pay-rise to £675,000, despite the fact that he has also presided over the company's dramatic fall. he has received about £15m from the company since 2006 and will also now be eligible for benefits via the company's performance share plan, worth up to 300% of salary. the company said the chief executive's increased pay reflected pluthero's "experience". the chairman is now the former senior non-executive john barton. one analyst, who did not want to be named, said: "jim marsh's departure is not going to be mourned by anybody. people will be upset that his resignation has been rewarded with a severance after most people see him as destroying value. for pluthero there are two schools of thought: one, that he should have gone too. or, two, that there are a great deal of operational inefficiencies that he might be able to eradicate. he is, to put it politely, a robust character." in a statement pluthero said: "clearly it has been a very difficult 12 months and it is now important that we take the necessary steps to ensure the future growth of our business. i'll be looking to take a more radical approach to building on our hosting, cloud and data services business while becoming more competitive and efficient in the mature product areas. it has been easy to lose sight of what this business could be; it is my intention to reassert and realise that future." however, the city was not convinced and cww shares lost 7.25p to 45p. mark james, a telecoms analyst at liberum capital, said: "they have lost their chief executive, their finance director [tim weller left in march] and their head of investor relations. there has been a series of high level departures. i would question how any new strategy will differ from the old one. the company has insufficient scale, which is why their cash conversion is so poor. they aren't big enough. they need higher revenues, and they are in decline." other watchers still saw value in the business, but in the short term they are pinning their hopes on the company selling its best assets. morten singleton, at investec securities, said: "the business can be turned around, but in the near term potential for shareholders is predicated on a bid. if they sold their international division [a network linking uk clients to the rest of the world] and thus [cww's brand that concentrates on small to medium sized businesses] they could raise at least £800m. the present market value of the business is about £1.4bn." cww was formed by the demerger of cable & wireless last year. the firm's local phone operations overseas including panama, macau and a number of former british colonies, were bundled together into cable & wireless communications, while the uk-focused business, which also includes energis, became cww. legacy cable & wireless shareholders were given one share in each new company, with cww remaining in the ftse 100 and cwc joining the ftse 250. at the time, that split was known to have delighted pluthero, who would frequently brag to his former cwc colleagues about the respective valuations. cww is now worth about £1.4bn, while cwc, which has also seen its share price slump, is valued at about £1bn. both are listed in the ftse 250. last year cww became one of the first companies to warn about the impact of public sector cuts, while in march it issued another profit warning after which marsh insisted: "i am happy i have the confidence of the board". cww blamed weaker sales orders in the first 10 weeks of its financial year for its latest setback. "this trend, combined with a lower than projected sales pipeline across our business, indicates that our gross margin out-turn is now expected to be somewhat below market expectations," the company said.
prada's stock market debut marred by 'tacky' charge from giorgio armani when prada made its stock exchange debut in hong kong on friday, it was the realisation of a dream held for at least 10 years by the creators of what has become italy's top-selling fashion house. but the occasion was tainted by the lingering venom of the most toxic attack the italian fashion world has seen in recent years. at a press conference in milan on tuesday giorgio armani tore into miuccia prada, saying she had "chosen the path of irony and of the bad taste that pleases". armani acknowledged that the 62-year-old prada, who has worked in her family's fashion firm since 1978, was "brilliant in her way, as are the dolce & gabbana duo", but added: "i've chosen to dress people." armani's reference to dolce & gabbana was a distinctly back-handed compliment. two years ago he accused the most famous partnership in style of plagiarising a pair of quilted trousers from his own collection of the year before. the row, inevitably dubbed "trousergate", was eventually patched up after his claims were indignantly denied by his younger rivals. among prada's most talked-about innovations this year is a line of tricolour wingtip espadrilles. the shoes have already found favour with the actor jude law, among others. but when asked about them at tuesday's press conference he said: "only newspapers like what is naff." the permatanned 76-year-old then lit into prada's financial strategy. "let's not kid ourselves; hong kong is an easier stock exchange than the others," he said. "i don't have debts," he added. "their problem, by contrast, is to pay back the banks what they have doled out to make the prada name strong." it was the second spat in a week in the hothouse world of style. on wednesday the tunisian-born designer azzedine alaïa said karl lagerfeld's creations were "too much caricature" and decried the dress sense of vogue's editor-in-chief, anna wintour. prada in milan said it had no comment to make. prada's shares made a quiet start, closing at hk$39.60 (£3.18), just 0.25% above the offer price.
prada fails to catch the eye in hong kong prada's stock market debut in hong kong on friday fell as flat as wearing last season's outfit at ascot. shares in the italian fashion house gained as much as 50 cents, or 1.2%, to hk$40 (£3.20) in the first hour of trading in hong kong but, by mid-afternoon, the stock was changing hands at $39.55, just five cents higher than the offer price. the stock was expected to fall on its debut because of tumbling global markets and worries from hong kong investors that they would have to pay italian taxes. but while it did not drop, it failed to track gains in the hong kong market where the hang seng index was up 1.7%. even so, prada chief executive patrizio bertelli was upbeat at the listing ceremony. "the very early trades seem to confirm the pricing was right. signs are very good," he said. "the majority of the shares floated (62%) came from the family and investors always worry when insiders sell. if it's such a great story, why are those who are running the business selling out?" only 14% of the £1.3bn float is new shares, raising £170m to be used to invest. milan-based prada sold 423.3m shares, or a 16.5% stake, to raise hk$16.7bn. the float was overshadowed by protests staged by women's rights groups on thursday, who accused prada of sexual discrimination. two dozen activists chanted "down down prada! the devil is prada! no listing of prada! shame on you prada!" as they demonstrated outside a prada store in a busy shopping district in hong kong. the protest was sparked by the dismissal of rina bovrisse, a former prada manager in japan who claimed she was unfairly fired in march 2010 after being told by a company executive she was "ugly" and didn't have "the prada look". "i'm here today to stand up for women who have been victims of harassment and discrimination at the workplace," said bovrisse, who flew to hong kong for the protest and asked investors to "think twice" before investing in prada.
us debt crisis threatens global markets as congress is locked in blame game the white house chief of staff, bill daley, interviewed on sunday on cbs, predicted that the next few days will be tense. "in the end, we may have a few stressful days coming up – stressful for the markets of the world and the american people." in an effort to reassure markets reopening after the weekend, he claimed he was confident a deal would be reached before the 2 august deadline. the white house refused to discuss what contingency planning is taking place in the event no compromise. obama met the democratic leader in the house, nancy pelosi, and the democratic leader in the senate, harry reid, at the white house on sunday to discuss possible compromises with the republicans but a white house staffer said afterwards no deal had been reached yet. democrats blame a hard core of republicans in the house elected last year with tea party support. the democratic leader in the senate, harry reid, labelled the republicans as intransigent. "their unwillingness to compromise is pushing us to the brink of a default on the full faith and credit of the united states," he said. cable, appearing on the bbc's andrew marr show, said: "the irony of the situation at the moment, with markets opening tomorrow morning, is that the biggest threat to the world financial system comes from a few rightwing nutters in the american congress rather than the eurozone." until now, market traders had appeared confident that agreement would eventually be reached but us legislators fear that, following the collapse of talks on friday, there could be the first signs of panic when wall street opens on monday as well as other markets round the world. according to the us treasury, america has to raise its $14.3tn (£8.77tn) debt ceiling by 2 august or risk defaulting for the first time. economists warn a default will have a catastrophic impact worldwide. the treasury secretary, tim geithner, attempted to calm the markets by insisting the debt ceiling will be raised, telling abc news that it was unthinkable that there would be a time when the us could not pay its bills. geithner said that congressional leaders were working on a compromise package on sunday to try to forestall any panic. but boehner, in a fox news interview, did not indicate that a compromise was near and instead blamed obama. "i know the president's worried about his next election. but my god, shouldn't we be worried about the country?" he said he planned to announce details of legislation on sunday based on a republican plan that would provide a short-term solution. democrats are unlikely to support it. the white house countered that it was not interested in a short-term solution but wanted a "grand bargain", a 10-year plan for reducing the country's burgeoning debt by cutting spending and raising taxes. daley said that a short-term fix would fail to reassure the markets because the business world is looking for evidence that america is going to take long-term measures to reduce its debt. obama and boehner were close to a deal on thursday night that would have cut spending by $3tn, mainly through spending cuts but also through $800bn in tax rises. boehner claims that obama, in an act of bad faith, tried at the last minute to add $400bn in tax rises and so he walked away. the democrats claim boehner walked away because he could not sell the package to tea party republicans opposed to any tax rises.
goldman sachs misses targets after trading downturn the bank's profits rose 77% to $1.09bn, up from $613m a year earlier when the bank paid $550m to settle charges with the us securities and exchange commission and $600m in uk payroll tax, but below first-quarter 2011 profits of $2.7bn. investment banking revenues soared 54% year on year to $1.45bn after goldman sachs ranked first in mergers and acquisitions for the year to date. but net revenues in fixed income, currency and commodities trading were down 53% from the second quarter of 2010 to $1.6bn. in a statement, the bank said the quarter had been characterised by a "challenging environment reflecting broad market concerns and uncertainty" that had held back trading, especially in european and asian markets. the bank set aside $3.2bn for staff compensation and benefits for the quarter, a 16% drop on the same quarter last year. operating expenses were $5.67bn, 23% lower than the second quarter of 2010 and 28% lower than the first quarter of 2011. the firm, along with many wall street rivals, is cutting staff. "during the second quarter, the operating environment was more difficult given global macro-economic concerns," said lloyd blankfein, chairman and chief executive. "in addition, certain of our businesses had disappointing results as we reduced our market risk in response to attempting to manage fluctuations in prices and market liquidity. despite these challenges, we continued to address our clients' needs through our strong global franchise and are well positioned to respond as economic conditions and sentiment improve." the bank, the us's largest by assets, last month proposed an $8.5bn settlement with a group of institutional investors that lost money on mortgage-backed securities purchased before the collapse of the us housing market.
eurozone crisis: rescue thursday or black friday? instead, the ecb, hamstrung by its mandate and rows with politicians over how the design of a permanent solution to the crisis, did nothing. and, presumably, it will continue to do nothing, at least until the summit of eurozone leaders on thursday. that meeting now looms as the moment when the eurozone, at the very least, has to decide how it wants to tackle greece's debts; private holders of greek debt must be told what hit to expect and when. but the summit needs to deliver a commitment to a pan-eurozone bond in which members guarantee each other's debts, or at least a portion of them. and, if not a rescue fund, then something that will do the same job.
uk banks dragged into eurozone crisis as global markets take fright more than £5bn was wiped off the value of three of britain's biggest banks on monday as global financial markets took fright at the deepening crisis in the eurozone. officials from eurozone countries were on monday trying to resolve the row between angela merkel and the european central bank (ecb) over a possible greek debt default after a day of turbulence that saw bank shares tumble in late trading. jean-claude trichet, the president of the ecb, is resisting pressure from the german chancellor for greece's private sector creditors to bear some of the losses of a default, but senior policymakers admitted that it was now vital thursday's talks in brussels come up with a credible plan that will restore market confidence after shares, government bonds and commodities all suffered sharp losses. sources said one option was to convert much of greece's debts into longer-term bonds, an approach used during the latin american debt crisis of the 1980s. michael derks, chief strategist at fxpro, said: "thus far, the pound has not factored in any real risk premium for political uncertainty. given the rapidity with which key figures in the scandal are falling on their swords, it could be argued that the pound is being complacent regarding the potential of the hacking issue to ensnare the prime minister and his party." with signs that financial markets are now targeting italy and spain, the us treasury secretary, tim geithner, urged european policymakers to do more to prevent the contagion spreading. "what europe obviously needs to do is to act more forcefully to contain the risk of an escalating crisis in europe," geithner told cnbc television. "they have the capacity to manage this in a way that does not add to the broader burdens of the global economy." yields on 10-year italian bonds pushed through 6%, while interest rates on 10-year spanish bonds were trading at 6.3%, their highest level since the single currency was created a decade ago. the euro dropped to its lowest level in two years against the swiss franc, still regarded – along with gold – as a safe haven during times of crisis. financial market experts said the single currency was facing a moment of truth, with the problems of sovereign debt and the banks intertwined. ian smillie, analyst at rbs said: "the 2011 european banking authority eu-wide bank stress test will not restore confidence in the european banking system. that will require stability in the sovereign bond markets, which in turn requires a credible, structural eurozone-wide solution to be implemented by the eu authorities."
bskyb directors to weigh up future of james murdoch bskyb directors will consider a payback of up to £2bn for investors and discuss james murdoch's future as chairman when they gather in 10 days for a board meeting. in a move designed to placate disgruntled investors, who saw £2.4bn wiped from sky's stock market value following the withdrawal of news corporation's proposed takeover, the board will consider whether to pay a special dividend or buy swathes of the company's own shares to push the price back up. news corp on sunday took steps to try to win back public opinion by publishing a second newspaper advert apologising for its mistakes. the ad, published in a number of sunday newspapers, set out how the company intended to restore trust. it promised "full co-operation with the police" and mentioned the compensation scheme set up by news corp for hacking victims – which is chaired by a high court judge, sir charles gray – and the hiring of the law firm olswang to conduct a new inquiry and draw up a new code of conduct. the ad stated: "there have already been a number of arrests and we will continue to co-operate fully and actively with the mps [metropolitan police service] wherever their investigations lead." sky, which has flourished despite the recession, has a £1.3bn cash pile and must decide how much of that money to return to shareholders. analysts at deutsche bank said last week that it could afford to return as much as 113p per share, amounting to a £1.9bn payday for investors. a source close to sky said: "having gone through both an offer period and a period of strong financial performance, discussion will now turn to the company's capital structure and shareholder returns." sky's board will gather to consider james murdoch's position on 28 july, the day before the company releases its annual results. this week the independent directors, who are led by the private equity boss nicholas ferguson, will take soundings from sky shareholders as to whether he should stay on. on friday, the former marks & spencer chairman and treasury minister lord myners became the first significant city figure to call publicly for the likely next leader of the news corporation empire to step down as chair of sky's board. he told the house of lords: "the board should seek to persuade mr murdoch that it is no longer appropriate for him to chair this company. there are sufficient doubts about his business judgment." myners questioned james murdoch's contribution to sky and news corp, noting the tens of millions spent buying myspace, which was sold at a loss this year; the loss incurred by sky buying a stake in itv; and the damages news international paid to max clifford and others, which could constitute a breach of us laws. the entire 13-strong sky board is likely to have to stand for re-election at its annual general meeting this year. no date has been set, but the event normally takes place in october or november. new corporate governance rules state that the uk's largest companies must put all their directors up for election every year. myners urged sky to use the vote as an opportunity to strengthen independent representation on its board. he called for the investment and pension funds that voted against murdoch's re-election at last year's annual meeting to do the same this year. they included aviva, baillie gifford, legal & general and co-operative asset management. "there is an opportunity here for the great investment institutions of edinburgh, london and new york to show that they have had enough with the way that the murdochs dominate bskyb and they should ensure that the company has an independent board of directors and a truly independent chairman," he said. james murdoch has been non-executive chairman of bskyb since 2007, when he was promoted from sky chief executive to run news corp's european operations. he is deputy chief operating officer at news corp and head of its international division.
health tests on ailing banks pile more pressure on euro financial markets are bracing themselves for a nervous weekend amid fears that today's annual health check of europe's banks will find fatal weaknesses in at least half a dozen institutions, piling more pressure on the embattled single currency. amid growing concern that europe's policymakers have allowed the debt crisis to spread to the major economies of monetary union, the announcement will provide details of the exposure of individual banks to debt writedowns or defaults. while uk banks are expected to pass the stress tests, there are fears that the results could add to the market jitters. the ftse100 was down nearly 60 points in london on thursday amid anxiety the tests will show some banks have insufficient capital to cope with bad debts. although the tests have been toughened since last year, they do not include the possibility of a greek default, seen as increasingly likely by the markets. italy had to pay record interest rates of 5.9% to persuade investors to buy its bonds, while borrowing costs for spain also rose. estimates of how many banks will need extra capital range from nearly a third of the 90, according to the ratings agency moody's, to nine needing €29bn, according to the average opinion in a poll of investors by goldman sachs last month. six spanish banks are expected to fail, although analysts polled by reuters expect between five and 15 banks to fail. marie diron, senior economic adviser to the ernst & young eurozone forecast, said: "the stress tests are unlikely to bring much relief to the current tensions that plague the eurozone. they will probably show a small minority of banks failing, mainly in the eurozone periphery, with possibly a few in core eurozone countries failing too. but the credibility of the stress tests has been undermined by what is perceived to be too lenient assumptions." the uk's banks, two of which have been bailed out, are believed to have passed. on friday the head of the european parliament's economic and monetary policy committee, sharon bowles, will say that german banks were manipulating the results of tests which show they are in urgent need of recapitalisation: "in their latest round of crisis-denial, german banks are lining up to try and hide what any decent analyst already knows, that there are significant cases of undercapitalisation." the tests are done by national regulators across europe but compiled by the european authority, which requires banks' core tier one capital to remain above 5% after worst-case scenarios, which include a drop in gdp over two years of 4%, compared with 3% for last year's tests. tamara burnell of m&g investments said: "it is like taking a driving test: you can pass and yet be a terrible driver. the real test is whether people are prepared to get in the car with you. so whether or not banks pass the 5% hurdle, the real test is whether investors and depositors trust them with money over the long term. and there's a long way to go before the european banks rebuild their reputation after a series of offences." while an outright default by a european nation is not included in the test (despite officials now being prepared for a greek default), christopher wheeler, analyst at mediobanca, notes that only 20% of the government bonds held by banks are being stress tested, because they sit in their trading books, rather than the banking books where bonds are held to maturity. making assumptions about the "haircuts"(losses on government bonds across europe), mediobanca estimates €81bn could be knocked off banks' capital, 9% of the sector, in 2012. it is not just banks' holdings of government bonds that are important, but also the way governments have stepped in to support banks, making their healths inextricably linked. burnell said: "what we need to test is the ability of sovereigns to separate themselves from their banks."
struggling premier foods faces pressure from big shareholders to launch £300m rights issue one big investor said a rights call "should be under consideration as premier is still paying many millions in interest despite recent disposals". the group, whose brands also include branston pickle, has cut debt from £1.4bn to about £900m in less than 12 months. but one critic says: "the borrowing level is still unsustainable, given tough market conditions and premier's [relatively] weak bargaining hand with customers." it is understood that at least one of premier's three big investors – paulson & co, warburg pincus and franklin templeton, which speak for 40% of the shares – would back a move to raise cash. clarke is replacing robert schofield, who oversaw premier's fateful £1.2bn acquisition of food company rhm, formerly rank hovis mcdougall, at the top of the market in 2006. the move prompted 10 profits downgrades in barely four years. premier, whose shares have crashed from 282p in 2007 to below 19p on friday, unveils its half-yearly figures this week. several city analysts believe the rights issue idea should be debated. martin deboo, of investec securities, sees it as one of several options, saying: "clarke has two choices: wipe the slate clean and go for a rights call to relieve the balance sheet and fund incremental marketing and fixed-asset investment; or try to navigate his way out of things organically, via better trading, maybe further disposals and (perhaps eventually) a bond issue to decrease the interest coupon and charge." premier's disastrous financial performance has left it almost friendless in the city, with graham jones, of panmure gordon, among its more vociferous critics. he says: "the group has made many mistakes in the past few years, overpaying for acquisitions and [entering into] injudicious swap arrangements… but the biggest failure, in our view, has been the volatility of trading in what should really be a fairly dull and predictable set of businesses, particularly in branded grocery." jones admits conditions have been difficult, with a combination of volatile commodity costs and high promotional activity, but adds: "premier seems to have had more than its fair share of disputes with retailers, whether it be in grocery, bread or chilled foods." clarke, a former divisional head of kraft and coca-cola, takes over from schofield on 1 september.
us disarray hits global stock markets barack obama has cleared his weekend diary to try to find a deal on the us debt crisis as congress prepared to stay in session ready to vote on any last-gasp compromise. the house finally voted on friday night for a bill to raise the debt ceiling in return for billions of dollars in spending cuts. but the bill is not the needed compromise as democratic senators have said they will kill it when it comes to their chamber. obama, in a statement at the white house, expressed optimism that a deal was still possible. "for all the intrigue and all the drama that's taking place on capitol hill right now, i'm confident that common sense and cooler heads will prevail." but congress remained in disarray for much of friday with the republican leader in the house, john boehner, in a dangerous mood after failing to quell a humiliating revolt by the tea party wing of the party. boehner scheduled a vote on thursday on a republican bill to raise the debt ceiling and cut spending, but hard-core conservatives refused to back it and the vote had to be temporarily abandoned and the bill was substantially rewritten to meet conservative rebels' demands. the febrile mood in washington was matched on wall street and in the city, where news that the us grew at an annual rate of just 1.3% in the three months to june prompted renewed concern that the world's biggest economy could lapse back into recession if ratings agencies downgrade its debt. speculation that the federal reserve might need to embark on a third round of quantitative easing – the creation of electronic money – intensified after revisions to past figures for us gross domestic product showed the recession was deeper than originally believed and the subsequent recovery weaker. america's peak-to-trough drop in output between 2007 and 2009 is now put at 5.1% rather than the 4.1% originally estimated. with the international monetary fund warning the us that a continued impasse risks reigniting europe's debt crisis, bond yields in italy and spain rose. the interest rate on 10-year italian bonds rose to 5.89%, while that for spain – where the government called a general election – climbed to 6.09%. shares in london closed 1% lower, a drop of 58.02 at 5815.19, while the dow jones industrial average closed down 96.87 points at 12,143.24, completing a week of daily falls. sources close to george osborne said the new figures from the us showed that the american and british experience during and after the global downturn had been similar, weakening the argument for the coalition to revisit its tough austerity plans. obama used the growth figures to urge congress to come to a compromise on raising the us debt ceiling from $14.3tn (£8.7tn) by tuesday's deadline. the white house is pinning its hopes for a deal on the senate, where obama hopes the democratic leader harry reid and his republican counterpart mitch mcconnell, a mainstream conservative, can reach a deal. obama said there were multiple ways to resolve the debt stand-off by the tuesday deadline. if the us does not raise its debt ceiling by 2 august, it risks being unable to continue borrowing and pay its bills. obama has said that default is not an option so the us treasury would prioritise keeping up interest payments, which could mean cuts elsewhere. the president reiterated that the victims could be people expecting federal cheques for welfare, and payments to military veterans and government contractors. "this is not a situation where the two parties are miles apart," obama said. he added: "there are a lot of crises in the world that we can't always predict or avoid: hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, terrorist attacks. this isn't one of those crises. the power to solve this is in our hands." one scenario would be for the senate to pass a compromise bill over the weekend that would raise the debt ceiling until the end of next year, after the white house election, and make deep cuts in spending. it could then be passed to the house for a vote in the hope that a combination of mainstream republicans and democrats would get it through. tea party republicans could vote against, able to return to their districts and tell activists they remained faithful to the cause. reid, speaking on friday morning in the senate, said thursday was wasted because of the house republican fiasco, blaming the crisis on "extremists in the tea party". he called for mainstream republicans to back a compromise. "will the republicans back away from the shrill voice of the tea party and return to the republican party of ronald reagan?" he said. he urged mcconnell to meet him to resolve the stalemate. "i will listen to any idea to get this done in a way that prevents a default and a dangerous downgrade to america's credit rating. time is short, and too much is at stake, to waste even one more minute," reid said. he will push to a vote on his own plan to raise the debt ceiling and to cut about $2.5tn in spending over the next decade. mcconnell also took to the floor of the senate and did not sound encouraging about a deal, though he may be saying something different in private. "lawmakers should be working a solution to this crisis, not a blocking strategy. our democrat friends here in the senate have offered no solutions to this crisis that could pass either chamber," mcconnell said.he blamed obama too, accusing him of having blown up a bipartisan compromise last week.
european debt crisis: spain downgrade threat unsettles markets financial markets face more turmoil after moody's put spain's aa2 credit rating on review for possible downgrade while us debt talks are still deadlocked. the news sent the euro falling and stock markets in london and the eurozone down. the euro fell 0.5% to $1.4265, and the pound also slipped. dragged down by banking stocks, spain's ibex index lost 1.4%, while italy's ftse mib dipped 1.5%. germany's dax and france's cac both fell just under 1% each. in london, the ftse 100 index lost more than 60 points in early trading and later traded down some 30 points at 5841, a fall of 0.5%. markets are eagerly awaiting the first estimate of us gdp growth in the second quarter, due at 1.30pm london time. "i am no longer sure if this is reality or i am watching a hollywood summer blockbuster," said gary jenkins, head of fixed income research at evolution securities. "with no resolution with regard to the us debt ceiling and with continuing contagion in the european government debt market it is clearly time for the safe haven trade." he joked: "i will be away for a few days watching the markets from a safe distance and no doubt by the time i return captain america will have sorted the debt ceiling and the eu will be making plans for 'mamma mia 2 – back to greece'." the dollar came under pressure on friday morning, dropping to a four-month low against the yen. lee mcdarby of investec corporate treasury said: "any agreement to resolve the current debt issues struck in the us after the deadline will put the us at a much greater risk of a downgrade which would be very bad news for the dollar." in europe, concern is growing that spain, the eurozone's fourth-largest economy, hamstrung by meagre growth and high unemployment, will fail to put its finances in order and need a greek-style bailout. nervousness among international investors has sent spanish government bond yields to their highest level in over a decade. having fallen below 6% a week ago on relief about the greek bailout, the yield on 10-year bonds rose again this week to hit 6.15% on friday morning. italian yields climbed to 5.93%. "spain's banking sector remains in turmoil, unemployment is sky high, and its debt is out of control," said max johnson, broker at currency solutions. "prime minister zapatero is perenially upbeat, but the fact is he has almost no way of creating growth. even with its second bailout, greece is almost certain to default. "when, not if, this happens, the pressure will move to the eurozone's other weak peripheral economies. that pressure will centre on the biggest peripheral – spain. with its credit rating slipping further, it will struggle to borrow enough to keep itself afloat and could easily become the next greece." moody's said last week's greek package set a precedent for private sector participation in future debt restructurings in the eurozone. the credit rating agency added that a downgrade is likely to be limited to one notch. it explained: "firstly, the continued funding pressures facing the spanish government, which the precedent set for future euro area support arrangements by the official package for greece is likely to exacerbate, and the resulting increase in risks to bondholders. "secondly, the challenges posed to the government's fiscal consolidation efforts by the weak growth environment and the continued fiscal slippage among several regional governments." the spanish government has set a deficit target of 1.3% of gdp for the country's 17 regions for this year and next, but some of their new governors say this will be impossible due to their predecessors' fiscal mismanagement. moody's aa2 rating for spain is in line with s&p's aa setting, while fitch has the country one notch higher at aa+. all have negative outlooks.
us debt deadlock hits world shares with no sign of a deal in washington, there were heavy losses in asia overnight. there was also a scramble to sell shares in europe, as traders reacted to the worst day's trading in two months on wall street on wednesday. the ftse 100 fell 54 points at one stage to 5802, but later clawed back most of the losses as the nervy morning session continued. there were sharper falls on the german and french markets. america's political leaders now have just six days to agree a deal to raise the limit on us borrowing, and traders are having to confront the possibility – unthinkable just a few weeks ago – that they will fail. "the rout in global equity markets continues as concern builds over the failure of us lawmakers to serve up any meaningful progress regarding the debt ceiling," said cameron peacock, market analyst at ig markets. "this one item really is dominating the agenda right now." europe's own debt crisis was also in focus, with standard & poor's downgrading greece's credit rating. earlier, asian markets had seen heavy falls amid concern that the us, the world's biggest economy and its biggest creditor, might default on its debts. japan's nikkei lost nearly 1.5%, closing 145.84 points lower at 9901.35. the us government moved to crush speculation that america has more time to resolve the crisis, insisting that the treasury only has enough funds to last until 2 august. "the problem is there is not enough money because we can no longer borrow money to pay all our bills. you're basically running on fumes," white house press secretary jay carney told reporters in washington. "it is a crisis situation." president obama continues to push for a long-term deal to raise the debt ceiling. republicans, though, are proposing a short-term extension – followed by fresh negotiations in 2012. carney denied that obama is looking to avoid a repeat of the current debacle in an election year. "it's not about the re-election," he said. "the issue here is the effect on the economy." gary jenkins of evolution securities was also concerned that the us was flirting with a downgrade, although rating agencies could be placated by a credible long-term fiscal plan to tackle america's debt. "on the current proposals a downgrade is still likely in my opinion, but at this stage of more concern is the possibility that they don't even raise the debt ceiling. surely they couldn't be that stupid?" jenkins wrote in a research note. s&p warned that banks holding greek debt will suffer significant losses via the rescue package announced last week, as it cut the country's rating to cc. s&p said that the upcoming restructuring of greek debt was a "distressed exchange" because private creditors will suffer losses if they agree to swap or rollover their loans into new 30-year bonds, and accept a "haircut" on the value of the the debt. s&p added that it will probably assign a "low-speculative-grade rating" to new greek debt.
imf tells us to put house in order the international monetary fund called on the united states to resolve its debt crisis amid warnings from one of the world's most influential investors that the country risked losing its triple-a credit rating within months because of the reputational damage caused by the ongoing disagreement over the debt ceiling. amid nervous trading on both sides of the atlantic, the directors of the washington-based fund "highlighted the urgency of raising the federal debt ceiling and agreeing on the specifics of a comprehensive medium-term consolidation programme" in its review of the country's economic prospects. the urgency expressed by the imf came after mohamed el-erian, chief executive of bond trader pimco, lambasted washington politicians for failure to reach a compromise to raise the us's debt ceiling. stock markets were disappointed that a deal has still not been reached, with bank shares in london being hard hit. barclays was down nearly 4% – the largest faller – with lloyds banking group and royal bank of scotland also lower. the dollar lost ground in asian trading, hitting a fresh record low against the swiss franc, and was lower against the yen. gold also hit a record high on monday, touching $1,622 an ounce, in the race for investment safe havens. with time running out, democratic leaders in control of the senate and republican leaders in control of the house put forward alternative plans on monday. although both sides blamed one another in public, there could be enough common ground in the two plans for further negotiation and an eventual deal. but el-erian believes the dispute – carried out in full view of an anxious world – has left investors wary about america's prospects. "in most likelihood, a last-minute political compromise will avoid a default but will leave the aaa rating extremely vulnerable," said el-erian, whose company is the world's biggest bond trader. "the country can ill-afford to lose the confidence of large foreign holders of us treasury bonds, overseas manufacturers with factories here, those that use the dollar as the reserve currency, and the many who have outsourced here the intermediation of their hard-earned savings and pensions," el-erian wrote in the huffington post. having reached its current debt ceiling of $14.3tn (£8.7tn), america is likely to run out of money on 2 august unless democrats and republicans vote to raise it. talks broke down on friday night, with the two sides still unable to agree on a plan to address america's debts. republicans accuse president obama of undermining the talks by pushing for higher taxes, prompting uk business secretary vince cable to blame "a few rightwing nutters in the american congress" for the crisis. a compromise plan proposed by the democratic leader in the senate, harry reid, went a long way towards meeting republican key demands: significant spending cuts and, crucially, no new taxes. reid proposed cuts in the us debt amounting to $2.7tn over the next decade in return for the republicans agreeing to raise the debt ceiling by an equivalent amount – sufficient borrowing to see the us through until after the november 2012 white house election. about $1tn of reid's savings would come from the anticipated drawdown of the us armed forces from costly wars in iraq and afghanistan. the election date is a sticking point, with the republican leader in the house, john boehner, proposing a shorter timeframe that would require renegotiation of the debt ceiling next summer. "it's well understood that the president would not like to deal with a deficit reduction package in the election year," a republican congressional spokesman said. boehner is proposing a two stage approach, cuts of $1.2tn over the next decade in return for raising the debt ceiling for about a year. the second stage would involve a congressional commission proposing another $1.8tn in cuts. democrats claimed the main obstacle to a deal was the inability of boehner to stand up to hardline members of his party who are backed by the tea party movement, which wants huge cuts and no tax rises. the democratic senator chuck schumer, in a television interview, said: "everyone likes speaker boehner … what is happening is that instead of boehner leading the tea party, he seems to be following them." although the deadline for default is august 2, in reality the timescale is shorter, with a bill on spending cuts and raising the debt ceiling needing to begin passage within the next few days. "i think we've got 48 hours within which to do something very, very meaningful," one of the democratic leaders in the house, james clyburn, told cable news channel msnbc.
bskyb 'bloodbath' hits hedge funds short-term speculators expected to make a killing by investing in a company viewed as a prime bid target, but instead have seen shares in the satellite television company plunge. one trader said: "it's a bloodbath out there. the hedgies have dumped their holdings and some of them will be nursing big losses." bskyb's shares fell 4% after the announcement that the bid was off, but recovered because many investors were relieved there was now clarity about the future. some shareholders even bought shares on hopes the company could announce a £4bn special dividend when it publishes full-year results in two weeks' time. but over the past 10 days, bskyb has seen its market value cut by £2.6bn with the shares falling from 850p to close at 705p. the biggest shareholders in bskyb are institutions such as capital research & management, blackrock and fidelity. but hedge fund perry capital owns a stake of 1.1% and could be sitting on paper losses that run into millions if it acquired the stock at above current levels. several big us hedge funds have reduced their positions in bskyb, according to regulatory filings. taconic capital advisors and davidson kempner european partners llp have been net sellers. taconic has taken its stake down to 1.45%, while davidson kempner is left with 0.79%. the british hedge fund millionaire crispin odey, who was once married to rupert murdoch's eldest daughter prudence, sold some of his 2.4% holding last week, but has topped it up again. however, the continuing decline in bskyb's share price means odey's paper loss is estimated to exceed £2m. a spokesman for his company said the group had owned bskyb stock for about 10 years and described the share price fall as "nothing. it was 550p a year ago". hedge funds had expected their investments to rise in value because they expected news corp's bid for the 61% of bskyb it does not already own would be cleared by ministers. but news corp scrapped the deal ahead of a parliamentary motion calling on murdoch to do exactly that, following the phone-hacking scandal that has engulfed his british newspaper business. speculators have also got their fingers burned by news corp, listed in the us, with the shares down 10% since the scandal broke. the family speaks for about 40% of the voting shares in the murdoch-run company. but murdoch has received support from donald yacktman, chief investment officer of yacktman asset management, the ninth biggest shareholder. he told reuters: "news corp may really tank businesswise, but i wouldn't put a high probability on it." he said bskyb was not a make-or-break deal for news corp, which generates most of its income from cable television and entertainment. "it does slightly reduce the predictability of cash flows, but the impact is minimal at best," he said. saudi prince alwaleed bin talal al-saud, owner of 7% of murdoch's company, said this week: "my confidence in news corp, in rupert murdoch and james murdoch is unshaken completely. we will sell nothing. we are standing by our friends."
italy's politicians rally round to prevent market's slide though the return demanded by investors soared, from just over 2.1% at the last such auction to almost 3.7%, the demand exceeded supply by more than half. that reflected a growing conviction that silvio berlusconi's government could steer through a package of austerity measures swiftly, and without concessions. parliamentary managers vowed the package, which aims to clip €40bn (£35.1bn) from the deficit, would be approved by the senate on thursday and in the lower house, the chamber of deputies, by sunday. the finance minister, giulio tremonti, hastened back to rome from a meeting of his eu counterparts in brussels to cut a deal with the opposition on last-minute changes. tremonti's austerity package only tackles one issue spooking markets – italy's giant public debt and a budget deficit he aims to close by the end of 2014. if anything, though, it could exacerbate another problem, which is italy's ultra-low growth – a persistent feature of its economy since 2001 when berlusconi first returned to office. some opposition politicians were advocating the formation of a cross-party "technical government" without berlusconi once the austerity measures had been signed into law. the media tycoon also played a role in sparking the sell-off by openly decrying his finance minister in an interview published on friday. anna finocchiaro, the upper house whip of italy's main opposition group, the democratic party, said: "berlusconi is costing italy too much."
european debt crisis: stock markets tumble as italy fears mount the ftse 100 index slumped by 133 points at one point in london, down more than 2.25%. it recovered some losses during a volatile trading session, and by 2.45pm it was 52 points lower at 5876. barclays fell as much as 6.5% to 218p followed by lloyds, down 4.7% at 42p. "the banks are biggest fallers, because of concerns that the european crisis is spreading to italy and spain," said david jones, chief market strategist at ig index. losses were also heavy across europe. the german dax was down as much as 2.1%, with france's cac 2.3% lower. in the bond markets, the yield – or interest rate – on italian 10-year bonds approached 6%, the highest in at least a decade. spanish yields hit 6.2%. economists have warned that these borrowing costs are approaching unsustainable levels. italy succeeded in selling €6.75bn (£6bn) of 12-month italian bonds on tuesday morning, but at an average yield of 3.67% – the highest interest rate on such debt since september 2008, following the collapse of lehman brothers. this helped the main italian index, the ftse mib, to recover some losses. it tumbled by 4.1% in early trading – with shares in italy's biggest bank, unicredit, being temporarily suspended after falling more than 7%. the slump in the euro illustrates the pressure that is building up against the single currency as europe's debt crisis rumbles on, warned jane foley, senior currency strategist at rabobank international. "the contagion that is eating its way through the spanish and italian and other european bond markets has a self-prophesying element to it. the greater its foothold the more difficult it will be for affected countries to keep their debt maintenance costs and budgets in line," foley said. "too much more delay and emu [economic and monetary union] could implode," she added. gary jenkins, head of fixed income research at evolution securities, warned that the lack of resolution to the wider european debt crisis is testing investors' patience. "if the endgame is to be the issuance of common european bonds and some sort of fiscal union then one wonders why they just don't get on with it rather than risk totally losing control of the situation," jenkins said in a research note. stock markets in asia also suffered heavy losses overnight, with japan's nikkei losing 1.43% and the hong kong hang seng index dropping by 2.57%. "yesterday's heavy bout of selling in europe and the us amidst escalating fears over the health of the italian economy unsurprisingly has taken its toll … there's the potential for another torrid day ahead," warned cameron peacock, market analyst at ig markets. the cost of insuring government debt issued by greece, spain, portugal, italy and ireland all rose on tuesday, according to data from markit. gavan nolan, director of credit research at markit, warned that "the pressure is mounting on europe's decision makers".
ultra-fast trading blamed for 'flash crash' "the flash crash was a near miss. it taught us something important, if uncomfortable, about our state of knowledge of modern financial markets. not just that it was imperfect, but that these imperfections may magnify, sending systemic shockwaves," he said. he described how technology was being designed to allow ever faster trading, including trading in micro-seconds. "this means it would in principle be possible to execute around 40,000 back-to-back trades in the blink of an eye. if supermarkets ran hft programs, the average household could complete its shopping for a lifetime in under a second." he also explained how firms were striving for an even faster capability, known as the "race to zero", where trading takes place at the speed of light. this had contributed to abnormal market movements, "adding liquidity during a monsoon and absorbing it during a drought". he said: "it may call for new rules of the road for trading. grit in the wheels, like grit on the roads, could help forestall the next crash." haldane argued that this ever increasing speed of trading is not adding to liquidity in markets during times of stress but amplifying the problem – as appears to have been the case during the flash crash. he said that during the episode there were delays in sending price quotes on 1000 stocks. "these delays lasted for up to 35 seconds. as a result, discrepancies emerged between the prices of common stocks trading on different exchanges."
bskyb share price falls as news of the world scandal takes its toll shares in bskyb fell on thursday, adding to recent losses, as several more companies bowed to public pressure and announced they were withdrawing advertising from news of the world. city analysts believe that news of the world is now vulnerable to losing both valuable advertising revenue and readers to its rivals. bskyb shares were trading at around 816p on thursday, down 11p, or 1.33%. that gives the company a market capitalisation of slightly more than £14.3bn, compared with almost £14.9bn on monday afternoon when bskyb shares were being traded at 850p. bskyb's shares were worth just £6 before murdoch launched his bid to own the company in june 2010, and city traders believe that the share price will remain above £8 unless the takeover should be blocked. a lengthy delay, though, will hit asset management firms and hedge funds who have bought shares in bskyb over the last year in the expectation of guaranteed profits this summer. "it's to do with the time value of money," said louise cooper, markets analyst at bgc partners, explaining why some bskyb shareholders had been selling this week. "if this deal takes longer to go through, then there is a cost to them," cooper added. in a question in the house of lords, the shadow leader of the house, lady royall, called for a delay "in the light of the loss of public and commercial confidence in news international", the news of the world's parent company. boots is the seventh-largest news of the world advertiser, with a £900,000 annual spend. a company spokesman said: "in light of the evolving situation, we have put on hold further advertising with the news of the world. an advertisement, which was printed some time ago, however, will appear in this sunday's fabulous magazine." alex degroote, an analyst at panmure gordon, has predicted that rival publishers such as trinity mirror could benefit from the flow of adverts away from news of the world, and potentially pick up new readers too. "assuming these advertisers want to keep their share of [spending] in print-related media, it is likely that the sunday-related titles - the mirror and people - could benefit," said degroote. "other options for advertisers would include the mail on sunday, or the express titles. however, the demographic of the mirror titles is possibly closest to the now. conceivably there could be upside in circulation terms too if readers also desert the news of the world," degroote added.
news corp and bskyb shares fall in wake of phone hacking revelations news corp shares fell on wednesday by 5% at one stage on wall street, to $17.17, as us investors reacted to the latest developments. bskyb shares fell as low as 818p at one point in london, a fall of more than 3%, and closed 2.1% lower at 827p. traders in the city believe murdoch's bid to buy the 61% of sky not already owned by news corp will probably still succeed, but are also aware of the possibility of further evidence about phone hacking emerging. "it's hard to believe that the phone-hacking scandal could directly put the bskyb bid in jeopardy, but it all depends on what future front-page revelations we see, and the strength of the voices against news of the world," said joshua raymond, chief market strategist at city index. raymond believes investors would push bskyb's price below 800p if they believed the bid was under serious threat. louise cooper, market analyst at bgc partners, said city traders are confident the bskyb deal will proceed. according to cooper there has been heavy trading in bskyb shares on wednesday, nearly three times as much as usual. sources close to the culture secretary, who will decide on the issue, have indicated that he could not take phone hacking into account in the decision that is focused on "media plurality". the media regulator, ofcom, said in a statement it has a duty to be satisfied on an ongoing basis that the holder of a broadcasting licence is "fit and proper". "it is clearly not for ofcom to investigate matters which properly lie in the hands of the police and the courts, however we are closely monitoring the situation and in particular the investigations by the relevant authorities into the alleged unlawful activities," said the communications regulator.
economic turmoil: this is probably not the time to panic so is renewed panic the sensible response to the known facts? or is it time to dust off president roosevelt's famous advice, in the depth of the great depression, that "this nation [the us] has nothing to fear but fear itself". it wasn't quite true, but it was the right thing to say. yes and no to both options. there is, for instance, little about (unchanging) italian levels of debt that the markets haven't known for years. so there's sparse good reason for mass hysteria now, apart from the continuing failure of the eurozone's cautious leadership to get on top of the wider debt crisis rather than merely respond to events. the germans have wanted to dominate europe again (they did in the middle ages) for 150 years. now's their big chance to do so without a shot (do we count teargas?) being fired simply by underwriting eurozone sovereign debts – many of them to german banks which lent recklessly anyway. chancellor merkel is too timid to seize her moment and carry her electorate with her. as for the us, i've been watching the climax of washington's budget crisis up close, a depressing experience, even when done out of the corner of a holidaymaker's eye, but also an education. these americans are hopelessly parochial and indecisive, almost as bad as the rest of us. the republicans' tea party faction, which has been calling the shots over debt reduction, is not simply wicked or stupid, though it is gripped by simplistic anti-government dogma and uncompromising demands. it has to make up its mind whether it is a broader protest movement (in which case it will split over issues like abortion or gay marriage, newly permitted in new york) or part of a real political party (in which case it will have to embrace discipline and a degree of consensus). my hunch is that its influence may have peaked this week. its adherents in congress split over the feeble budget deal between the republican-controlled house of representatives, the democrat-controlled senate and the white house, which has contributed to the market panic. many of its adherents seem to regard its political success – spending cuts have not been offset by tax rises, as the democrats wanted – as a defeat. if the faltering economic recovery (more bad data later today) falls back into recession and voters realise that the tea party's primitive medicine, the equivalent of blood-letting, is the wrong medicine, they'll be cross. barack obama? late in the third year of his presidency, he is unlikely to make a great leader now, though a career is never over until it's over. for all his soaring rhetoric, he lacks vital basic skills and may need the tea party's self-righteous attachment to dogma to rescue his chances of a second term. being the sort of people many of them are – as shown in the budget debate – they may well oblige. but brains are no substitute for leadership, and the professor president too often stands aside when he should be cajoling, arm-twisting, emoting his concerns rather than appealing to reason in language that does not connect with many voters. michelle obama does that better, but she's not president. polls suggest that american voters deplore the party political games played this past month or so by both sides in sweaty summer washington. as in europe, they deplore their elected leaders' failures. but the same polls show that – as in europe – voters are part of the problem too. americans want us debt levels reduced and even support a law requiring the federal government to run balanced budgets – not a very smart idea anyway, and especially not now. yet they don't want that balanced by higher taxes on themselves or cuts in federal programmes – "entitlements" as they call pensions, healthcare, unemployment benefits – or other public activities from which they stand to gain. sounds familiar? indeed. greeks, irish, portuguese, brits, italians and germans – no one is keen to see their own belt tightened, not least because they think it's all someone else's fault. well, it is more the fault of the bankers and the politicians than of ordinary voters who benefited from cheap loans, cheap asian goods, low interest rates and other things that couldn't last. but we are all having to tighten our belts, as overspent individuals and corporations. that's why it's particularly daft to curb government expenditure too quickly when there is precious little evidence that the private sector, leaner and more efficient than before the crash, is yet ready to step up and fill the gap – in britain too, its recovery flagging as much as america's. yes, debt ratios to national income are a real problem and need to be watched as they creep up. the tea party is right about that. but its belief that government activity is invariably a drag on free enterprise is at least a century out of date, its assertion that the us constitution of 1787 is the ultimate fountain of wisdom as primitive as similar beliefs about the qu'ran or das kapital. yet that's the view congress's vote endorsed this week. strange, then, that in this hour of renewed crisis it is to governments, not markets, that markets look for salvation. why isn't the eu better run? why is the us government "dysfunctional", to use obama's own phrase? where exactly is david cameron so the coalition has to field justine greening, an obscure junior treasury minister, to reassure markets on air today? it's true that governments aren't doing very well – but governments move more slowly in response to change than markets do because they have to carry electorates with them. they can't afford to make such spectacular mistakes as those the markets made in cheerfully underpinning sub-prime home loans in the us or greek borrowings in europe. nothing governments have done before or during the financial crisis since 2007 can match the scale of those mistakes, unless we count the bush administration's decision to let lehman brothers collapse (which the firm certainly deserved) in september 2008. it may not be much consolation three summers later as financial markets panic in the opposite, hyper-gloomy direction. but it's worth bearing in mind.
ftse 100 drops more than 3.4% amid financial turmoil the dow jones industrial average plunged 4.3%, one of its biggest ever falls, sparking a 3.7% slide in japan's nikkei and a 5% drop in hong kong's hang seng. the ftse 100 is on track for a third consecutive triple-digit close. the last time there was a sequence of large falls was in september 2008 in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers. dealers were braced for volatile trading ahead of us unemployment data at 1.30pm london time, which is a key barometer of the health of a us economy that is barely showing signs of growth. they also want more action from european leaders to contain the debt crisis that has spread from greece, ireland and portugal to the larger economies of spain and italy. bond yields – or interest rates – in spain and italy remained above the critical 6% levels, with italy 10-year yields at 6.3% and spain at 6.4%. levels above 7% have forced greece, ireland and portugal to seek bailouts from the european union and international monetary fund. in contrast, the yield on uk government bonds, known as gilts, fell to record lows. in italy, shares in intesa sanpaolo and unicredit were suspended after falling quickly at the open and have already slumped to levels last seen during the 2008 banking crisis because of fears about their exposure to their own government's debt. gold, meanwhile, was rising again back towards its record highs after slipping on thursday as hedge funds sold gold to cover losses elsewhere. jane foley, analyst at rabobank, said: "fears that global growth is slowing have been intensified by panic that the european debt crisis is intensifying." amid signs of a growing sense of urgency, french president nicolas sarkozy is to hold crisis talks to discus financial markets with german chancellor angela merkel and spanish prime minister josé luis rodríguez zapatero on friday. the ecb was yesterday thought to be buying bonds of ireland and portugal but not targeting the ones facing even more pain: italy and spain. "the ecb was reported to be buying peripheral bonds yesterday. however, it appeared that it steered away from buying italian and spanish government bonds – a sign that was not taken well by potential investors. despite increasing liquidity, the ecb is now being criticised for being a reluctant participant in the effort to contain the crisis," foley said. hewson said the focus was on the us unemployment data. "with sentiment as depressed as it is, it would take an almighty beat to shake the market out of its fear, while a miss on the downside could well open up further risk aversion," he said. the unemployment data – known as non-farm payrolls – is expected to show a rise of 85,000 jobs in june after the meager 18,000 increase in july.
markets tumble after wall street losses financial markets were in turmoil after a collapse in share prices around the world. fears that the the world economy could slip back into recession led london's benchmark ftse 100 index to lose 50bn billion of its value – its biggest fall of the year. asian stock markets also plummeted as investors sold riskier assets amid fears the us is heading back into recession and europe's debt crisis is worsening. japan's nikkei 225 stock average slid 3.4% to 9,328.74 and hong kong's hang seng dropped 4.4 % to 20,912.60. south korea's kospi index shed 3.6 % to 1,945 and taiwan's benchmark slumped 4.4 % to 7,952.98. australia's benchmark dropped 4% to 4,103.10. the slump in the far east came after the us stock market suffered one of its worst days ever on thursday, with the dow jones index plummeting 4.3%. the plunge in share prices came amid rising fears that italy and spain, the eurozone's third and fourth largest economies, may need bailouts and widespread worries over the us' economic recovery. richard hunter, head of uk equities at hargreaves lansdown stockbrokers, said markets could continue to fall on friday, particularly if closely watched jobs data from the us reveals a further slowdown in the economy. he said: "investors are pessimistic at the moment, the general market mood is to try to prepare for the worst. "it's difficult to see anything positive coming from the data today unless they reveal absolutely barnstorming figures." worried traders are waiting for the release of us unemployment figures for july, which is expected on friday to show weak job growth and a rise in the unemployment rate. the plunge in global markets is further bad news for chancellor george osborne, who has faced increasing pressure over the pace of britain's economic recovery. robert chote, chairman of the office for budget responsibility, on thursday said the watchdog's growth forecast of 1.7% – made in march – was likely to be missed. gdp increased by a lacklustre 0.2% in the second quarter of 2011 after consumers reined in spending. the growth fears led the bank of england to hold interest rates at their record low of 0.5%. it is understood that the government is monitoring the global markets closely and the chancellor is receiving regular updates. a treasury spokesman said: "this is a time of uncertainty in the international economy. because of our difficult decisions to reduce the deficit and tackle our debts, britain has been stable during this time. "the economy is growing and creating jobs." the collapse of shares in europe was sparked after the cost of borrowing for the spanish government rose sharply in a debt auction – indicating lenders have lost confidence in the country's ability to handle its debts and avoid a bailout. european commission president jose manuel barroso urged european leaders to rapidly reassess "all elements" of the eurozone's bailout fund, known as the european financial stability facility (efsf), including its size. the efsf was equipped with new pre-emptive powers last month, including the ability to buy up distressed government bonds to support their prices or extending credit lines to countries before they are in full-blown crisis mode. that was a recognition that rescue packages like the ones given to greece, ireland and portugal would be far too expensive for big economies like italy and spain. but analysts have said the fund will not be able to properly use these new powers at its current size of €440bn (£383bn). the ftse 100 index closed down 3.4%, or 191.4 points, at 5393.1 – its biggest daily drop since march 2009. it follows a fall of 2.3% yesterday, which means that £85mhas been wiped off its value in the past two days. it is now at its lowest point for nearly a year. the dow jones lost 512.76 points which was the steepest points fall since december 2008. it was the ninth worst fall by points for the dow.
dow jones returns to losing ways as investor confidence evaporates fears of a double dip recession and europe's financial crisis on thursday triggered the biggest sell off in us stocks since the 2008 banking crisis. a small rally on wednesday saved the dow index from a nine-day losing streak, a consecutive fall unseen since 1978. but the sell off continued with the index erasing all the gains it had made in 2011. the loss was the biggest single-day fall since 1 december 2008, the height of the financial crisis, when the dow plunged 679.95 points in one of the market's worst days ever. john prestbo, editor and executive director of dow jones indexes, said: "the dog days have turned vicious for the market, with the dow jones industrial average plunging nearly 513 points, or 4%. the question now is, have investors finished lowering their expectations or is there still some way to go? time will tell, but it's difficult to envision a sustained rebound without some evidence that the global economy is alive and kicking." now the markets are braced for friday's monthly non-farm payroll data which gives the most authoritative snapshot of employment in the us, which is currently struggling with nearly one in 10 out of work. any increase in joblessness tomorrow could spark another sell-off in the markets. jack ablin, chief investment officer of harris private bank, said investors were now on tenterhooks awaiting friday's job figures. "people's expectations are very low. even a modestly positive figure could see some relief," he said. but if the figure disappoints, he expects another collapse. ablin said investors has lost confidence in governments' ability to boost economies by cutting rates or economic stimulus programmes. judging by your keen attention to the markets this week, we thought you might be interested in comments on today's sell-off from "the mood right now is gloomy," mike ryan, the new york-based chief investment strategist at ubs wealth management americas, told bloomberg. his firm oversees $774bn. "the burden of proof is for better data that shows the economy is not falling into recession. friday's payroll report is crucial. if we see another disappointment, the stock market will have significant downside from here." david jones, chief market strategist at ig index, said that the wall street losses were more severe than city traders had expected when london closed for the day. josé manuel barroso's call for europe to rethink its financial rescue funds had raised fears that italy and spain are about to follow greece and ireland, he said. "once the us debt ceiling was raised, the markets – which can only really focus on one thing at once – turned their attention back to spain and italy. barroso's letter confirms suspicions that europe's political leaders don't have a grip," jones said. stephen massocca, managing director of wedbush morgan in san francisco, concurred. "the debt troubles in europe, especially with the yields on italian and spanish government bonds soaring, are making investors gather as much liquidity as possible," he said.
martin rowson on the eurozone crisis - cartoon
financial markets: state of emergency this panic comes down to two things: one chronic, the other acute. the abiding worry, the one that has been eating away at markets ever since the stimulus measures of 2008-09, is that the western economy has run out of emergency fuel and still lacks momentum. the immediate worry is that spain and italy are now borrowing money at unsustainable rates and may be forced into the kind of slow-motion default on sovereign loans that is happening in greece. these stock-market drops and interest-rate spikes are largely the repricing of investor risk – amplified by the fact that few people are trading heavily in august.
world stock markets in turmoil almost £50bn was wiped off the value of britain's 100 biggest companies on a day of global stock market mayhem triggered by a deepening of the eurozone crisis and fears for the us economy. "for many traders this week has felt like the start of the banking crisis in 2008, which would go some way to explaining the panic selling we have seen today," said will hedden, sales trader at ig index. the fall on wall street is expected to cause further falls in the ftse 100 index of leading shares on friday, after the index fell to its lowest close, 5393.14, since september 2010 yesterday. the futures market was predicting a further 100 point fall. rumours were swirling around the city that hedge funds were being forced to sell assets such as gold in order to cover deepening losses on other investments. this led to a surprise 1% drop in gold, which in recent weeks had hit record highs of more than £1,000 an ounce as a safe haven bet in the eurozone and us debt crisis. brent crude fell 5% to $107 a barrel amid signs of slowdown in the west's economies. anxiety over the debt crisis in the eurozone, and increasingly in italy, set the tone for nervous trading during the london morning, but the pace of the decline accelerated as wall street opened sharply lower. by early afternoon in new york the dow jones had declined by 400 points. despite this week's 11th-hour agreement to raise the us debt ceiling, wall street is increasingly anxious over the health of the world's biggest economy. a major test comes on friday with the release of us employment data giving the latest health check of an economy which barely grew in the first half of the year. the 191.27 point drop in ftse 100 index represented a 3.43% slump – the index's biggest daily fall in percentage terms, and the biggest points fall, since march 2009. banks were particularly hard hit, with falls in the bailed-out lloyds banking group and royal bank of scotland leaving taxpayers nursing £28bn of losses. there were big falls by other ftse 100 firms. the index of leading shares has now shed 422 points this week, wiping £110bn off its value. it is down 11% since april's peak. the continued weakness in the uk economy ensured the bank of england kept interest rates at their record low of 0.5% for the 29th successive month. the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, fuelled anxiety about the eurozone debt crisis by berating european leaders about the speed at which they were responding to the debt crisis, barely a fortnight after congratulating them about their latest deal to rescue greece. "we are no longer managing a crisis just in the euro area periphery," he said. "euro area financial stability must be safeguarded." he urged european leaders to review "all elements" of the €440bn (£382bn) european financial stability facility and its €500bn replacement, the european stability mechanism. the european central bank gave signals it was ready to resume buying bonds of troubled eurozone countries. dealers said the central bank had been buying portuguese and irish bonds – but not those of italy and spain, where borrowing costs have shot to euro era highs and are now the new focus of the markets. jamie dannhauser, economist at lombard street research, said the ecb was "still in cloud cuckoo land". "the overriding impression one gets of the ecb is of an organisation unwilling to accept the reality that faces the eurozone. in contrast to other major central banks, the ecb has recently been making hawkish noises – at least, that is, until now." despite the ecb intervention, continental european markets suffered heavy losses. germany's dax closed 3.5% lower and the french cac dropped 4%, while the euro fell sharply against other currencies, losing nearly 1.5 cents against the us dollar, to $1.4170. the bank of japan had sparked frenzied action on the foreign exchanges after intervening to drive down the value of the yen, which has been strong against the dollar. bond yields – interest rates – in italy remained stuck above the critical level of 6% while italian shares plunged amid confusion about the moves in the main stock market index which was experiencing pricing difficulties. amid the rout, it emerged that police acting on orders from the prosecutors of trani, a port on italy's adriatic coast, had raided the milan offices of the rating agencies, moody's and standard & poor's, as part of continuing investigations into their role in recent financial turmoil. the chief prosecutor in trani told reuters that his office was checking to see whether the ratings agencies "respect regulations". ivan glasenberg, chief executive of the commodity trading group glencore, has emerged as one of the biggest losers of thecurrent stock market sell-off – at least on paper. when glencore floated on the london stock market in may, the 54-year-old south african's personal stake was worth £5.76bn. but, by the time the market closed on thursday, it was valued at £4.31bn – a loss of £130m a week. when it listed, glencore was valued at about £37bn – bigger than tesco and nearly twice the size of insurer prudential – and the float catapulted glasenberg into the list of the world's richest 100 people. since then the shares have fallen 25% from 530p to 396.35p on thursday night. the glencore listing created a huge amount of interest as the company was immediately thrust into the ftse 100 index of leading shares and, from there, it automatically became a key holding in many people's pension funds. the float also generated massive rewards for a group of faceless traders who had spent much of their careers operating in almost total obscurity. apart from glasenberg, four other glencore billionaires emerged after the company went public: daniel maté and telis mistakidis, whose fortunes are now worth about £1.7bn each; as well as tor peterson and alex beard, whose stakes are both currently valued at around £1.5bn. glasenberg, who has spent his entire career at glencore, was hired by the company's founder marc rich, the controversial trader best known for being charged by us authorities with trading with iran, fleeing to switzerland and then being pardoned by bill clinton on the president's last day in the white house. rich left glencore in the mid-1990s when glasenberg and others took control.
market turmoil carries echoes of august 2007 there was a whiff of august 2007 in the air on thursday as financial markets tumbled around the world. more than a whiff, in fact. the familiar stench of panic was back as shares fell heavily, bond yields in spain and italy rose and the search for a safe haven sent the price of gold to a new record level. banks took an especially severe pummelling amid fears that they were exposed to the two big concerns of investors: a break-up in the eurozone and a double-dip recession in the global economy. in a week of anniversaries, it was a day that conjured up all the wrong sort of memories. it was 97 years since britain declared war on germany, and the resulting financial turmoil meant the stock market, which had closed at the end of july did not re-open for business until early 1915. yet even in the month or so after the assassination at sarajevo, when the great powers gave up on diplomacy and prepared for conflict, the movements in financial markets were less violent than they were on thursday. the dwindling band of optimists point to differences with four years ago. many companies, especially the bigger ones, are in rude financial health after cutting costs aggressively. parts of the emerging world, such as china and russia, are growing strongly and may act as the locomotive for the rest of the world. in the west, interest rates are low and budget deficits high: policymakers have pressed the pedal to the floor in an attempt to get their economies moving. but the ultra-loose state of macro-economic policy cuts both ways. policymakers were the heroes of meltdown 1, thumbing through their copies of keynes's general theory to come up with the measures deemed necessary to prevent the global banking system from imploding. but if the next few weeks see meltdown 2, the policy options will be limited. interest rates are already at rock-bottom levels while the flirtation with keynesian fiscal policies was brief. as one analyst put it on thursday, the monetary and fiscal guns are not obviously full of bullets. thursday's mayhem will fan speculation that the federal reserve will respond with a third dose of electronic money creation through the process known as quantitative easing. not that the $2tn (£1.2tn) the us central bank has already pumped into the global economy appears to have had much effect, apart from to provide more casino chips for speculators and to push up food and energy bills around the world. there was a colossal stimulus provided in the winter of 2008-09 but the results have been profoundly disappointing. cheap money and big budget deficits certainly averted a second great depression, a very real prospect three years ago when no bank looked safe and factories were lying idle and that is success of a sort. but it has not produced the normal snap back from recession seen during the post-second world war era. indeed, the deepest recession since the 1930s has been followed by the feeblest recovery. even the lowest official interest rate since the bank of england was founded in 1694 has not been able to persuade debt-sodden consumers to load up with more borrowing. in britain, as in america, households have been tightening their belts as wages have failed to keep pace with prices. the downturn of 2008 was a different sort of recession – one caused by banks and individuals borrowing far more than was good for them, rather than one caused by central banks raising interest rates in response to higher inflation. it's a different sort of recovery as well – weak, stuttering and at risk of being aborted at any moment. in one sense, the mood is quite different from august 2007. back then, the financiers and the politicians spent the first six months after the crisis broke in a state of denial, forever expecting the return of business as usual. they didn't really get it until the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008. financial markets were taken completely unawares by lehmans, but this is a week that has seen the us taken to the brink of debt default, a deal to safeguard the single currency start to unravel within a fortnight of it being agreed, and a steady drip feed of downbeat economic news. only a mug would call thursday's events a "lehmans moment". stock markets tend to anticipate change. they rise at the bottom of the cycle in anticipation that economic conditions will improve, and they fall when they assume that things are about to take a turn for the worse, which is what they expect now. it is not just that growth appears to be flagging everywhere, even in china. it is the concern, cruelly exposed in greece, portugal, ireland, italy, spain and even the us, about the solvency of nation states. back in 2007, the one comfort for markets was that a banking crisis never became a sovereign debt crisis. now it has, and markets are scared witless as a result.
stock markets tumble amid eurozone fears over italy and spain world stock markets tumbled sharply again on thursday, wiping nearly £50bn off the value of britain's biggest listed companies, as the eurozone crisis and fears over the global economy sparked another rout in the city. the ftse 100 index fell by 191.27 points to close at 5393.14, its lowest closing level since 2 september 2010. at 3.43%, this is the index's biggest daily fall in percentage terms since 30 march 2009, and the biggest points fall since 2 march 2009. other european markets also suffered heavy losses, with germany's dax closing 3.5% lower and the french cac dropping by 4%. shares were also in retreat on wall street, with the dow jones index down by 2.68% when trading ended in london. the scenes were reminiscent of the worst days of the financial crisis, three years ago. "for many traders this week has felt like the start of the banking crisis in 2008, which would go some way to explaining the panic selling we have seen today," said will hedden, sales trader at ig index. "european sovereign debt and faltering global economic recoveries are weighing on markets," hedden added. the ftse 100 has now shed 422 points since the start of this week, wiping £110bn off the value of the blue-chip companies which make up the index, and ha fallen by 11% since the peak of 6082 reached in april this year. commission president josé manuel barroso called for the eurozone rescue fund to be significantly enlarged. barroso warned the crisis was spreading and that europe risked losing the faith of the financial markets. "we are no longer managing a crisis just in the euro-area periphery," barroso said. "euro-area financial stability must be safeguarded." with italian and spanish 10-year bond yields above the 6% mark, investors are losing their taste for risk. gold touched yet another record high, hitting $1.681.67. "it is increasingly becoming apparent that this economic recovery will be slower and more difficult because nations and some consumers are overladen with debt," said louise cooper, markets analyst at bgc partners. "repaying the loans will take longer and be more painful than we had previously anticipated. we are in a catch-22 situation. we desperately need growth to pay off the debt, but we cannot grow because of the amount of debt we owe."
wall street still in doldrums despite debt deal us stock markets ended an eight-day losing streak wednesday, narrowly avoiding a slide unseen since jimmy carter was president and abba ruled the pop charts. the rise ended over a week of consecutive declines, including the biggest one-day sell-off in two months. the index had not fallen for eight straight days since october 2008 after lehman brothers went bust and the global financial crisis began. us stock markets failed to react positively to the news over the weekend that washington had reached an agreement to raise the debt ceiling, avoiding a downgrade of us debt. the dow has not seen losses for nine days in a row since 22 february 1978, when the us was suffering a recession, an energy crisis and sky-high inflation. the comparison would have been an uncomfortable one for barack obama, some of whose critics have taken to comparing him to carter, whose one-term presidency was blighted by a financial crisis, among other issues. many had expected to see a rally in the stock markets on monday after a deal to raise america's debt ceiling was reached over the weekend, removing the threat of an imminent default on its debt by the world's biggest economy. "now that the debt deal is done, people are focusing their attention on the economy, and the recent figures have been disappointing," he said. recent reports on gross domestic product and consumer spending had all been poor, he said: "the fundamentals are weak. it's all about the economic data." the commerce department announced yesterday that factory orders had fallen by 0.8% in july as companies cut back on orders for aeroplanes, cars and heavy machinery. the news came as figures from the institute for supply management showed a slowdown in the service sector. the figures followed reports that us consumers had cut back on spending in june for the first time in nearly two years while their incomes grew by the smallest amount in nine months. dales said all eyes were now on us employment figures due out on friday. he said those numbers would be pivotal. "if those are weak, then this slide will continue; if the numbers are strong, then it could ease fears," he said. the us news and europe's continuing debt crisis spooked investors in stock markets around the world. in london, the ftse 100 index dropped 2.5% at one stage to its lowest point this year, and the markets in france and germany showed similar falls. peter coleman, managing director and director of research at jmp securities, said the markets were now concentrating on jobs and consumer spending. "there was a brief moment of interest in what was going on in washington," he said. "but what's driving this is the economy." jack ablin, chief investment officer of harris private bank in chicago, said: "investors no longer believe we can rely on washington to cushion the blow. we have had 30 years of [federal reserve chairmen] greenspan and bernanke cutting interest rates when the economy looked soft. now the government is spending to create jobs, and it's not working. now we are in a situation where we have to let the chips fall where they may. that's a very daunting prospect." the day's biggest winner was gold, as investors looked for a safe haven for their cash outside the us. gold prices hit a new record of $1,663.40 per ounce, with analysts predicting that the price could top $1,700 on the back of mounting worries about the health of the global economy.
silvio berlusconi fails to stem rising panic in financial markets   fears that the eurozone crisis is escalating and further evidence of the weakness in the us economy drove stock markets lower on wednesday as policy makers failed to restore confidence in global markets. the ftse 100 index closed at its lowest level since november, after its biggest one day fall for nine months of 133 points. after a nerve-racking day wall street narrowly avoided its ninth consecutive day of falls – a losing streak unseen since 1978. italy and spain – whose prime minister, josé luis rodríguez zapatero has cut short his summer holiday – are now at the centre of the eurozone debt crisis that began with greece more than a year ago and has enveloped ireland and portugal. european commission president josé manuel barroso tried to inject calm into the markets by insisting that record high yields – interest rates – on spanish and italian government bonds were "unwarranted". "developments in the sovereign bond markets of italy and spain are a cause of deep concern," barroso said. "these developments are clearly unwarranted on the basis of economic and budgetary fundamentals in these two member states and the steps that they are taking to reinforce those fundamentals." amid the anxieties in europe, concerns about the us economy were compounded when the service sector survey was weaker than expected and other data showed a fall in factory orders in june. investors bet on gold as a safe haven driving prices to a record $1,663.40 an ounce. in france, shares in the second largest bank société générale were temporarily suspended – they eventually closed 9% lower in heavy turnover – after it took a €395m (£345m) hit on its exposure to greece because of its contribution to the bailout plan. concerns were also mounting that banks across the eurozone were finding difficulties in funding themselves on the markets. huw van steenis, banks analyst at morgan stanley, said: "investors, we and some banks are increasingly concerned that funding markets won't reopen with sufficient depth or at good enough terms for italian and spanish issuers, requiring banks to take offsetting measures". berlusconi's statement to the lower house of parliament faced immediate criticism for failing to tackle the problems facing the italian economy even though he promised to work with unions and employers on a reform of italy's notoriously rigid employment laws. he drew attention to the fact that his government had earlier given the green light to €9bn of infrastructure projects which he said would promote growth, especially in the poorer south. but his keenly awaited speech contained neither an appeal to the nation for painful sacrifices in the common interest, nor an announcement that his government would force through the radical, structural reforms that most economists believe italy badly needs. there were few indications that berlusconi intended stiffening the budget-reduction measures his government approved last month. and he flatly ruled out any change of government. "stability has always been a winning weapon against speculation," berlusconi declared. he was speaking at the end of a day that saw italy's borrowing rates soar to their highest levels since the launch of the euro. the yield on its benchmark, 10-year treasury bonds touched 6.21% before dropping back to 6.09%. his economy minister giulio tremonti had earlier met eurogroup president jean-claude juncker to discuss the crisis. berlusconi had originally intended to deliver the first of two speeches to the legislature earlier in the day. but it was decided that, given the sensitivity of the situation, he should hold off until after the close of markets in europe. despite calls for his resignation, the prime minister said he fully intended seeing out his mandate, which does not expire until 2013. the nearest he came to self-criticism was an admission that "we know there is more to do." quite what remained elusive. his pledge on labour reform was tentative. the government had some time ago proposed to the unions and employers a revision of italy's keystone employment law, he said. "now is the time to check the level of agreement".
us debt crisis continues as turmoil infects italy and spain interest rates on spanish and italian bonds rose to well above 6%, the level that signalled the beginning of the bailout process for greece, ireland and portugal. meanwhile, interest rates on assets seen as safer fell sharply, with the yield on uk 10-year gilts dropping to an all-time low of 2.77%. gold rose to a new record level for a ninth day in a row on tuesday. wall street's dow jones index had lost 266 points by the close in new york – its eighth successive fall and longest losing streak since the global banking system was on the brink of collapse in october 2008. us shares have given up virtually all their 2011 gains, while stocks in europe and asia are already trading below the levels at which they ended 2010. "there is a growing sense of crisis enveloping markets in the northern hemisphere," said nick parsons, the global head of strategy at national australia bank. diamond warned that the single currency's problems were not going to disappear – which he dubbed "chronic event risk", and said it was important to support david cameron and george osborne's efforts to put britain's public finances back on track. "if they don't address public spending they put at risk the [uk's] triple a rating. if the us gets downgraded, it is an issue for the us but it is still a relatively minor market event. but if the uk gets downgraded, it would have bigger implications for the economy," said diamond. "i do support what the prime minister and the chancellor here are doing." diamond's intervention came as the us senate voted for the deficit reduction plan agreed by democrats and republicans in washington and as fitch, one of the world's three big rating agencies, gave the us a breathing space by saying it would not immediately strip the world's biggest economy of its prized top-notch credit ranking. fitch stressed, however, that the respite could be shortlived. while pointing out that the risk of default was "extremely low", the rating agency said that without significant changes in fiscal policy, the us debt to gross domestic product ratio "will reach 100% by the end of 2012, and will continue to rise over the medium term – a profile that is not consistent with the united states retaining its triple a sovereign rating". bnp paribas bank was on tuesday forced to take a €534m hit against its exposure to greek government debt. the bank insisted it would be a one-off occurrence despite a large exposure to italy, in the latest sign that banks across europe are beginning to take hits against the country. hsbc set aside £65m on monday. confirmation of the us debt deal prompted a fresh political row in the uk, with the government insisting the spending restraint agreed to by barack obama was tougher than that announced by george osborne. conservative mps said the us deal vindicated the coalition's approach and represented a setback to the shadow chancellor, ed balls, who has been urging the uk government to adopt the more cautious approach to deficit reduction hitherto favoured by the us. labour sources disputed that america's programme of cuts was now more draconian than britain's and said the republicans appeared to have forced obama into "a plan that some believe risks going faster than is economically wise, just at the time when worries are growing about the fragility of the us recovery".
pandora: charm bracelet investors were pushing their luck it's a mystery how investors kidded themselves that pandora could have been worth £5bn. maybe they had been watching too many soaraway floats of luxury labels in the far east – that's their mistake. but pandora's management has no excuse: all that hot-housing and deep-diving, whatever it is, should have happened before now.
stock markets reverse early gains after bleak us manufacturing data stock markets suffered a dramatic turnaround on monday, as an early relief rally in the wake of the us debt agreement soon ran out of steam following poor manufacturing figures from the world's biggest economy. investors initially welcomed news, announced by barack obama late on sunday, that an agreement had been reached to raise the us debt by about $2.4tn (£1.5bn), with a package of $2.5tn spending cuts over the next decade. the plan will probably not save america from losing its cherished triple a credit rating since standard & poor's had called for $4tn of cuts, but analysts said the last minute agreement had bought the administration some much needed time. angus campbell, head of sales at capital spreads, said: "it took one piece of poor manufacturing data from the us to send equity markets into a tailspin. for what would not normally be considered a particularly major piece of data to cause sentiment to turn on a sixpence and ruin all the hard work achieved by the bulls earlier in the day is a major concern for investors." in the uk, ten-year gilt yields hit an all-time low of 2.796% as both uk and us manufacturing figures pointed to an economic slowdown, but the uk looks increasingly like a safe haven for international investors. in europe it was a different story as yields on italian bonds jumped above 6% from 5.85% on friday as investors were reminded of the eurozone problems following a warning of a possible bailout for cyprus from the country's central bank. simon smith, chief economist at fxpro said: "for both the us and eurozone, we've seen deals agreed which buy time, but don't deal with the causes of sovereign risk and sustainable deficits head-on. for this reason, investors may start to factor sovereign risks into their trading decisions in a way that was never required before." stuart gulliver, chief executive of hsbc, said the implications for the markets of the us losing its triple a rating were not clear. he said: "i think it is still quite possible that we see a downgrade, and it is uncertain as to what impact that will have on the financial markets. "it is unclear to me whether a number of the central banks, that probably hold mandates restricting them to owning aaa rated sovereign securities, whether they change their mandates to participate in fresh purchases, or whether indeed we get a dislocation in the market from that change of mandate." but it was the us manufacturing figures which really burst the optimists' bubble. after friday's news that the us economy grew by just 0.4% between january and june, the us purchasing managers' index for last month showed a drop from 55.3 in june to 50.9, compared to forecasts of 54.9. the index for new orders fell below 50. the report also indicated a sharp fall in the employment index, which suggested that the widely watched us non-farm payroll numbers on friday could also prove disappointing. wall street climbed as high as 12,282, but by the time london closed the us market was down more than 138 points. the ftse 100 also slumped into negative territory, finishing 40.76 points lower at 5774.43. with the eurozone's financial difficulties also hitting sentiment, spain's ibex fell more than 3%, portugal's psi lost 2% and italy's ftse mib fell nearly 4%. gold recovered to $1630 an ounce, up $4 on the day, while the dollar hit a new trough against the swiss franc and a near five month low against the yen.
us debt crisis deal boosts stock markets the news that democrat and republican leaders had finally settled on the outlines of a debt deal sparked a relief rally in asia and europe, with the oil price also rising. traders had been braced for the world's largest economy to run out of cash on tuesday. the ftse 100 opened 76 points higher at 5891, a 1.3% rise, while the german dax index also gained 1.3% and the french cac rose 1.2%. obama said on sunday he had reached agreement with republican and democratic congressional leaders, but added cautiously: "we are not done yet." the deal will raise the country's debt ceiling by about $2.4tn (£1.45tn). it also includes about $2.5tn in spending cuts, expected to come from cuts to welfare budgets. the japanese government swiftly gave the agreement its backing. "we welcome the us debt deal and hopefully this will stabilise markets," chief cabinet secretary yukio edano told reporters in toyko. most major commodities gained ground, pushing the cost of a barrel of brent crude oil up by $2 to $119.40. gold, which has benefited from the crisis as investors looked for safe havens, fell by 1%. overnight, asian stock markets rose strongly on the news. the japanese nikkei was up more than 2% at one stage, closing up 1.34% at 9,965 having broken through the 10,000 barrier earlier. the broader japanese topix index was up 1.2%. the us dow jones industrial average is expected to open 185 points up when trading begins later. stock markets have drifted in recent weeks as the debt issues in both the eurozone and in the us damaged confidence. investors remain concerned that america could still lose its aaa credit rating – possibly within days – which would push up the country's borrowing costs. michael hewson of cmc markets said on monday morning: "investors are still expected to remain nervous until any agreement is signed off by both houses, and then signed off by the president. whether this agreement is enough to head off a possible ratings downgrade by the ratings agencies in the coming weeks is another matter. it would seem unlikely given recent comments by s&p." cameron peacock, market analyst at ig markets, said: "we have a deal over the debt ceiling from washington, but with president obama calling it modest, there has to be a degree of concern that they've done little more than kick the proverbial can a bit further down the road." the us congress will vote on monday to complete the compromise, though standard & poor's has suggested that it may cut the us's triple-a credit rating even the deal is agreed. speaking before the debt deal was announced, julian jessop, chief international economist at capital economics, said: "it looks like they will get a deal done, but it looks like none of the numbers are going to reassure the debt rating agencies. i'm pretty sure america will lose its triple a rating."
debt crisis: 'four years on, and we're still just kicking the can down the road' it is four years today since the global financial crisis began: gordon brown was still spending his honeymoon period and the new prime minister had spent his first weeks in no 10 worrying about floods, foot-and-mouth disease and a terrorist attack on glasgow. but both he and his chancellor, alistair darling, soon had other things on their minds. amonth later, there were queues outside northern rock branches for three days after it was announced that the high-street lender was being propped up by the bank of england. the after-effects are still with us, and show little sign of abating: "four years since the ecb [european central bank] first intervened in the money markets, we believe that the credit crisis has never really ended, and recent interventions are just another example of 'kicking the can down the road'," said m&g's bond expert jim leaviss. although events of the past week have shown that the sub-prime crisis is very much still with us, the same cannot be said of the banks, the bankers who ran them, the regulators ostensibly in charge of supervising big finance and the politicians who so often danced to the tune of wall street and the city of london. the bankers adam applegarth, who ran northern rock, has long gone, claiming that 9  august 2007 was "the day the world changed". northern rock was reluctantly nationalised by the brown government and remains in state hands. gone too are hbos, subsumed by lloyds, and the bradford & bingley. on the day the world changed, sir fred goodwin, chief executive of royal bank of scotland, was masterminding the €72bn (then £49bn) takeover of abn amro, the deal that marked the top of the market. two years later rbs announced a loss of £28bn, of which £20bn was due to abn amro. rbs is now more than 80% owned by the taxpayer; goodwin was eventually forced out by the government in what he called a "drive-by shooting". the politicians economic growth the uk economy grew at a healthy 2.7% in 2007; two years later it contracted by almost 5% in the biggest one-year fall in output since the 1920s. interest rates a month before the crisis broke, the bank of england had raised short-term interest rates from 5.5% to 5.75%. by early 2009 they were down to a record low of 0.5%, where they have remained since. house prices the average house price in the uk was £210,000; today it is £165,000. unemployment up from 5.4% of the workforce to 7.7%. the rise would have been worse but for a big outflow of eastern european workers who headed home after the crunch. markets the ftse 100 index closed at 6393 on 8 august 2007, more than 1,000 points higher than last night's close. on wall street the dow jones industrial average stood at 13,209 and continued to rise in the first two months of the crisis to peak at 14,164 in early october. quantitative easing only devotees of john maynard keynes had heard of quantitative easing in august 2007 but the us federal reserve and the bank of england have both turned on the electronic money taps in an attempt to mitigate the effects of recession. government borrowing city bonuses bankers are still coining it in, even though the amount paid out in city bonuses to a smaller pool of workers has dropped from £11.6bn to an expected £7.5bn this year. the median salary of an investment banker in the uk has doubled to £350,000, but there have been changes at the top. bankers andy hornby, chief executive of hbos, had a new £1m-a-year job running health and beauty group alliance boots within months of exiting hbos. but he quit unexpectedly this year and was last month named as the new boss of the bookmaker coral. sir victor blank, the former lloyds bank chairman and the city grandee who brokered the hbos deal, was pushed out in may 2009 and has yet to find another high-profile berth. there has also been a change at the top of barclays, which during the days of the credit crunch was run by john varley. he remains on the barclays payroll for another month after handing over to bob diamond on 1 january. at hsbc the top bankers have also gone since the credit crunch. stephen green, then chairman, is now lord green and a business minister, while the chief executive mike geoghegan was replaced by stuart gulliver, former head of the investment bank. green has been replaced by the then finance director, douglas flint. the regulators john tiner, chief executive of the financial services authority, had the luckiest escape of them all – leaving the city regulator in july 2007, a month before the mayhem, to hand the helm to hector sants. the chairman of the fsa, sir callum mccarthy, remained until lehman brothers collapsed in september 2008, shortly after which lord turner stepped in. in the us bear stearns was swallowed up by jp morgan and lehman brothers collapsed in september 2008, triggering the most dangerous phase of the crisis. there has been a cull of bankers; : jimmy cayne at bear stearns, stan o'neill at merrill lynch, dick fuld at lehman brothers, angelo mozilo of countrywide and chuck prince of citigroup, who famously said a month before the crisis began that banks had to keep dancing until the music stopped. which it did that day four years ago when bnp paribas suspended three hedge funds that had specialised in us sub-prime debt.
market turmoil: a view from the trading floor "you know it's really bad when you come into the office and there are pizza boxes and doughnuts strewn about," says 25-year-old hedden. his last "pizza day" was friday, when the ftse went into freefall and £150bn was wiped off the value of britain's biggest companies. "it was really crazy," says hedden, who was stuck in ig's office overlooking the thames until past 9pm. when i take my perch peering over hedden's shoulder at 7.45am on monday, just ahead of the london markets opening at 8am, he is relaxed. while predicting it will be bad he reckons it will "probably be nothing like friday". he estimates the ftse 100 will open about 70 points down, which compared to friday's 146 point fall would be small change. on the dot of 8am the market opens 60 points down. "ah, only 60 points – that's fine," says hedden, tucking into two bananas. by 8:30am the index has tipped into the black and the atmosphere becomes almost jovial. hedden, who has been fielding a relentless stream of calls, finds time to chat, post a couple of tweets and even consider buying a £7,000 racing bicycle. the first question on my lips: where are all the flashing screens and men running round in stripy jackets shouting out numbers and speaking in code? like in the movies? "this is kind of as hectic as it gets," says hedden, who sits at a long row of desks staring at four computer screens. he says the frenetic trading pits still seen in new york died out in london in the 1980s. most trading is now done electronically and here at ig index they place trades on behalf of individuals using spread betting accounts. although hedden occasionally jumps to his feet to shout details of large trades across the office there are few raised voices. there's also very little of the bad language said to be a firm fixture of life in dealing rooms but this could be due to a office-wide email sent to spare the guardian's blushes. the one sound you think you'll hear is phones ringing, but they don't. "it's not like the old days when the phones rang like mad and you could hear the room from the lifts," hedden says. "now we've all got these [headsets] so you can't hear the phones ring – but trust me they are ringing." the fancy new phone system means traders wear the headsets at all times and when a call comes in for them a receptionist speaks in their ear. early on hedden's terminal lights up like a christmas tree with clients waiting to get through to direct trades, some worth tens of millions of pounds, but the calls have slowed to a trickle by 10am. the atmosphere begins to build again as the clock approaches 2.30pm's opening of markets in new york. hedden predicts the dow jones opening between 260 and 270 points down in this first trading session since the downgrade of us debt late on friday night. in the event the dow opens 220 points down then rallies strongly. for a moment hedden and his colleagues relax and it looks like they can put the pizza menus away for another day. but just after 3.30pm the us indices start to slump and one of hedden's colleagues shouts: "there's some odd stuff going on". others leap to their feet asking if anyone speaks italian, french or swedish as calls flood in from across the world. as it approaches the 4.30pm close of the london market hedden nips to toilet to spruce up his hair and put on a tie for the tv cameras which have descended on the trading floor. normally when london closes hedden is straight out the door, but not tonight. the ftse has lost 178 points in its fourth straight day of consecutive triple-digit declines – the first time this has happened in the index's 27-year existence. another very bad day but "not bad enough for pizza", hedden says. at 5.45pm he leaves the office to face his second challenge of the day: cycling through the london riots to his flat in chingford.
us debt crisis: markets continue to fall despite obama's calming words barack obama has dismissed standard and poor's downgrading of america's credit rating and insisted the us remained an aaa country. in his first words since s&p's decision on friday evening, he sought to calm the markets, which had been tumbling since opening, saying america's problems were solvable, providing there was the necessary political will. "this is the united states of america. no matter what some agency says, we will always be a triple a country," he said. as well as seeking to reassure the markets, obama also sought to protect his chances of re-election to the white house next year by blaming the decision on tea party republicans. the downgrade, the first in american history, provides the republicans with a powerful stick to with which beat him in the election campaign. candidates seeking the party nomination to take on obama pinned responsibility on the president, saying he had provided poor leadership and failed to take desperately-needed action to make even deeper debt cuts. a cnn poll showed 75% of those surveyed felt the economy was going badly – up 15% since may. despite the wall street selloff, prompted by the ratings downgrade, international investors piled into us treasury bonds. by midday in new york, two-year us treasuries were in such demand that their yields hit an all-time low of 0.24%. at the same time, 10-year treasuries fell to 2.36%. analysts said that – compared with the problems mounting in the eurozone – the us looked a safe haven. the vix index – known as the "index of fear", because it measures market confidence – jumped to levels not seen since the depths of the 2009 recession. obama spoke from the white house while the markets were still open in the hope that he might have an influence – but they continued falling during and even after his statement. the president, blaming the republicans, said the downgrade was not so much because of doubts about america's ability to pay its debts but the month of wrangling in washington over the debt ceiling rise. the question was a political one, not a financial one, he said. in a swipe at s&p, he noted that other credit agencies had not joined it in downgrading america. "it does not mean we don't have a problem," obama said, citing the deadlock in washington over the last month. he said the threat from the republicans had upset the market, and that was a "legitimate concern". but he claimed there was good news in that the problem could be fixed by balancing the budget and the new congressional super-committee being set up to look at spending cuts and revenue raising could provide the answers. good bipartisan proposals were out there, he said. "it is the lack of political will in washington" that was the problem. he would put forward proposals of his own over the next few weeks. his statement is unlikely to create much confidence that there will be a bipartisan agreement. the president insisted there had to be tax raising measures, a move the republicans say they will not even contemplate. obama also said that any cuts in benefits, such as medicare, would be "modest", while republicans are looking for deep cuts. much of the political action this week will be in iowa, the first state where the republicans will hold their caucus early next year to choose a candidate to take on obama. most of the republican hopefuls will be campaigning in the state this week ahead of a televised debate on thursday and a straw poll on saturday. however, the candidates lined up on monday to blame obama. the present republican frontrunner, mitt romney, speaking in new hampshire, another of the early states in the republican nomination battle, said obama was primarily responsible for the downgrade because he had failed to stimulate economic growth. he added that some of the blame could be placed on democrats and republicans in previous congresses. "no, i don't think it's simply the president's fault. i'm sure there are many people who share responsibility in washington for the excessive spending over the last couple of decades," romney said. democrats, most of them anonymous, also criticised obama, saying his present troubles are a direct result of his failure to stand up to the tea party republicans during the debt ceiling stand-off. there is unlikely to be much relief for obama over the summer holidays. the political focus will shift to the composition of a new congressional super-committee set up as part of the deal last week to draw up detailed plans for debt reduction. the committee is due to begin work in september and identify areas for spending cuts before the end of the year. the obama administration expressed hope that the downgrade will put pressure on the bipartisan committee to reach a compromise. but republicans, having fought two successful guerrilla campaigns this year so far in which they threatened to close down the federal government and force the us to default, are almost certain to renew hostilities over spending. ha-joon chang, page 26 
debt crisis: barack obama's call for urgency fails to prop up shares barack obama tried to stem a fresh tide of selling on global markets on monday when he said america's loss of its prized aaa rating should provide a "new sense of urgency" for washington to tackle its chronic debt problem. the president called for an extension of tax cuts to boost the world's biggest economy but the insistence that the us would always be a "aaa country" had little impact on wall street, which continued to plunge after his address. the dow jones average was down 500 points by early afternoon as markets had their first opportunity to pass judgement on the decision by s&p to downgrade the us's sovereign credit rating following months of wrangling between democrats and republicans on capitol hill. us banks, in particular, were badly hit. the bank of america was down nearly 18%, citigroup 17% and morgan stanley 14% as investors feared a second credit crunch could engulf the sector. london witnessed a resumption of last week's panic selling, with the ftse 100 index falling by more than 100 points for the fourth successive day – for the first time in its 27-year history. on another bleak day in the city, a further £46bn was wiped off the value of the ftse, bringing the total cost of its losing streak to £210bn. the index closed 178 points lower at 5069 and has dropped by more than 800 points since 29 july. only one company in the ftse saw its shares rise on monday and with wall street in turmoil, early indications were that shares in london would again open loweron tuesday. markets in the rest of europe also registered sharp declines despite the success of the european central bank in driving down the interest rate on italian and spanish bonds – a key concern for investors during last week's turmoil. dealers said the ecb had been aggressively buying bonds to prevent interest rates hitting the levels that led to bailouts for greece, ireland and portugal. at the close, both italian and spanish yields had fallen by almost a percentage point to just over 5%. oil prices fell sharply amid fears the global economy was about to enter a double-dip recession. brent crude was down by $4 at $105, while the search for a haven sent the price of gold soaring by $70 an ounce to a fresh record of $1,721 an ounce. us bonds were also snapped up by nervous investors, who took no notice of the downgrade by s&p late on friday night. the price of 10-year treasury bonds rose, pushing the yield down to 2.35%. in a press conference s&p chairman, john chambers, defended the decision to cut america's rating to aa+, the first time it has not had the top grade on its debt since 1917. "we think elected officials across the spectrum are unable to proactively take measures to put us public finances on a sustainable footing in the same sort of matter as some of our most highly rated governments," chambers said. the press conference was part of a pr offensive with chambers and david beers, head of the ratings agency's sovereign ratings unit, appearing on several us morning tv shows to rebut suggestions that they got their maths wrong. beers called the attacks "simply a smokescreen for the unhappiness, in our view, about our decision". s&p followed up the us downgrade by trimming the credit rating of the us's massive government-backed lenders fannie mae and freddie mac. shares in bank of america (boa) were especially badly hit after aig, the insurance giant that was bailed out by the us government, launched a $10.5bn lawsuit alleging "fraud, misrepresentations and omissions" in deals on mortgage-backed securities. aig alleges that boa wrote subprime mortgages to borrowers it knew could not repay and then sold on the loans. obama said the markets continued to believe the us was aaa, noting that the veteran investor warren buffet considered america to be aaaa. s&p cut the credit rating on buffet's berkshire hathaway investment company. jack ablin, chief investment officer at harris private bank, said: "it is hard to tell when this is going to end." he said investors appeared to be ignoring news from europe where the ecb has stepped in to aid in italy and spain. ablin said investors seemed to be agreeing with s&p. "unfortunately congress has had a poor record of making difficult choices. this is an indictment of the process, not so much the us's ability but their willingness to tackle the debt." mark zandi, chief economist of moody's analytics, said in a note to clients that the selloff should be short lived. he said the downgrade was "a blow to the american ego, but it should be nothing more than that. the timing was especially inopportune given the fragile collective psyche, thus its immediate impact may be amplified, but it should produce no long-lasting repercussions. if history is any guide, there is no meaningful probability that the us will default on its debt." us investors are betting that volatility will continue. the chicago board options exchange volatility index, or vix, the so-called "fear gauge" jumped 21% in early trading monday.
european central bank mounts rescue for italy and spain – but sets its price the european central bank's decision to start buying up italian and spanish bonds has controversially extended its operations into detailed demands for economic restructuring, it has emerged. acting against the advice of germany's bundesbank, the ecb has been drawn into a role in the markets that had been intended for the eurozone governments' bailout fund, the european financial stability facility (efsf). the ecb bond buying operation – which could reach €850bn (£740bn) according to analysts at rbs – has also transferred significant risk to the balance sheet of an organisation that has traditionally stuck to its remit of controlling inflation. behind the scenes, moreover, it has begun to dictate – and in reportedly meticulous detail – the policies to be followed in one of europe's biggest economies. before mounting the intervention that drove down italian and spanish borrowing costs on monday, the ecb had spent some €75bn buying the debt of greece, ireland and portugal. under the terms of an agreement struck by eurozone leaders last month, however, the bank's bond-buying powers are to be assumed by a reformed efsf. the paper said the bank's demands almost amounted to a new government programme: "the level of detail in the letter must have astonished even the recipient. there are the measures to be taken; there is the timetable according to which they must be implemented. not even the legislative instruments that the ecb asks the government to use have been left out." they included liberalisations, to be imposed by decree; privatisations, including those of companies owned by local authorities, to be started immediately, and sweeping reforms of the labour market to abolish the rigid distinction between cosseted "insiders" in permanent employment and "outsiders" on short-term contracts with few rights and scant entitlements. it is not clear whether berlusconi's announcement on friday of a new fiscal initiative was taken in response to the trichet-draghi letter. the prime minister, who has not interrupted his summer holiday, vowed to bring forward new measures to eliminate italy's budget deficit. pierluigi bersani, the leader of italy's biggest opposition group, the democratic party, demanded to know the full contents of the letter. "it is incredible and unacceptable that the opposition has until now not had any account of the conditions being imposed upon us by the european and international communities," he said. the ecb's bond-buying programme attracted criticism from analysts. michael schubert, an economist at commerzbank, said the bank's new operations not only risked losses on the bonds, but its reputation as an inflation-fighting monetary authority. "if people do not believe or are convinced that the ecb is supporting governments, then this could be a severe loss in reputation and the consequences would be that inflation expectations would go up." in france, european leaders were strongly criticised for remaining on holiday while the single currency crisis has unfolded.while berlusconi is in sardinia, the french president, nicolas sarkozy, who also holds the g7 presidency, is on holiday in the south of france, while the german chancellor, angela merkelis walking in the sud tyrol. former french finance minister jean-louis borloo said it was vital for the g8 and g20 nations to meet "urgently ... at the level of heads of state" to solve the economic crisis. "the moment is historic and we have to act quickly," he told le figaro newspaper. he urged sarkozy, currently on holiday with his pregnant wife, carla bruni-sarkozy, to convene the meetings: "the situation is such that the european executive must reunite in the coming days and that national parliaments are convened at the same time. we have to get parliaments involved as soon as possible." borloo came up with four solutions to the crisis: a "massive intervention" of europe's main banks, especially the european central bank; the setting up of an "anti-speculation stabilisation fund"– fed by a tax on financial transactions; the "cleaning up" of public finances in western economies, and the "organisation of international financial regulation". professor eric heyer, of the centre for economic research of the respected sciences po university in paris told the guardian he feared the holidaying politicians and bureaucrats were sending the wrong signals and making an already bad financial crisis worse. "what we need is action and action now," he said. "if they address these problems now, if they show there is someone running things, they will kill off the speculators." "we need decisive action straight away. people are talking about plans being put into effect in september but that's no good. it's not in september we have a problem, it's now. how much did the ecb spend today? we will find out for certain next week, but the speculation is the bank's president, jean-claude trichet, below, spent as much as €5bn. before today, about €74bn had been spent in the past 18 months, mostly on greek, irish and portuguese bonds. how does the ecb get the money? the ecb's balance sheet is backed by funds from eurozone members, based on population and gdp. it also takes deposits and sells other assets to raise funds. how long can the ecb keep buying? the european financial stability facility (efsf) european bailout fund should be stepping into the market. but its powers need ratifying by member states which could still take weeks or possibly even months. many bankers also believe that the efsf's current €440bn budget needs hiking raising to as much as €2.5tn. ig index's analyst at ig index christopher beauchamp said: "the efsf is not big enough, so the ecb could find itself acting as a stopgap on a regular basis. it cannot keep going forever without running out of funds.". why is the ecb now buying bonds issued by spain and italy? and why now? the ecb has acted now because the scale and speed of the markets' move is making it too expensive for spain and italy to fund their debts. until the changes to the efsf are ratified by the member states, no- one else can step in. louise cooper, of bgc partners, said: "this is a short-term fix which has bought them a little time. it is a pretty dramatic fix, but investors have got to be convinced that they can lend to these countries at 5%, or 4% as it was a year ago, and not 6%." is this real money? bankers can get into a long philosophical debate on this point but real cash is being used to buy the bonds. what are the likely unintended consequences?
global debt crisis vindicates coalition policies, says nick clegg in his first comments on the financial situation since returning from a holiday, the deputy prime minister also said a european central bank (ecb) promise to buy government bonds from italy and spain appeared to be "calming the markets". clegg was speaking in mid-morning, at a time when the ftse 100 seemed to be rallying, but stock market losses continued in london and elsewhere in europe later in the morning. asked whether the ecb's intervention meant europe had stepped back from a crisis, the deputy prime minister said: "clearly, these are very turbulent times in the markets. there is a lot of volatility. "i think it is promising that the statements from the french and german leaders, from the european central bank, from the g7 finance ministers have had, it seems, some effect at placating the markets and calming the markets, but there is a lot of work to do." however, clegg insisted the crisis showed why the government was right to introduce sweeping spending cuts in a bid to eliminate the uk's structural deficit by 2015. "all governments around the world need to get to grips with their public finances and, at the same time, to put in place the long-term reforms that create growth and prosperity for millions of people around the world," he said. "if anyone had any doubt about the need for this coalition government first to come together in the national interest in times of great economic uncertainty and then to get on top of our public finances, i think that recent events should demonstrate the necessity of the steps that we took last year." "here in britain, the events of the past month are a vindication of the coalition's decision to get ahead of the curve, and they demonstrate the reckless folly of the alternative route." "every country needs a credible plan to get their economies growing and get deficits down – but a plan is only credible if it delivers, and george osborne's reckless plan is not working," he said. "tax rises and spending cuts which go too far and too fast have already knocked confidence and choked off last year's recovery. "our economy has flatlined for the last nine months – well before the problems of recent weeks – and now borrowing is set to be £46bn higher than planned."
ecb intervention brings short-term relief in volatile day for markets the eurozone debt crisis paused for breath on monday morning as the european central bank stepped in to buy the debt of troubled eurozone countries. yields on 10-year italian and spanish bonds had spiked last week, rising above 6%, as eurozone debt fears spread from the currency area's peripheral states towards the centre. gary jenkins of evolution securities said that the debt costs of italy and spain were key to the ongoing crisis. "while from an economic data standpoint it is still data from the us that gets the markets' attention, it is trading in the likes of italian and spanish government bonds that will determine the direction of the market over the next few days." the ecb's move also prompted a short-lived stock market rally across europe. on a volatile day, the italian ftse mib index was up 2.8% early on, while spain's ibex 35 rose 2.6%, defying predictions of a heavy selloff following s&p's downgrading of the us credit rating on friday night. that boost faded, however, with the italian index down 1.2% at 10:30, and the ibex up by just 0.1%. in the city, the ftse 100 fell 66 points at the start of trading this morning, only to reverse and move into positive territory, then turn negative again. by 10.30am the blue-chip index was 1.7% down, a fall of 87 points. the volatility in european markets followed sharp falls in asian stock markets overnight. the japanese nikkei index was down 2.1% at the close, while the country's topix fell 2.2%. gold surged to yet another record – its 11th in the last 19 trading sessions – reaching $1,715 an ounce at one stage. oil was falling, with brent crude futures down almost 3% to $106 a barrel. until recently the idea of the ecb buying bonds had been discredited, jenkins pointed out. "it didn't really work for greece, portugal or ireland [the greek 10-year yield was back above 10% within six weeks]. however, the ecb buying the bonds of italy and spain seems to be the new great hope for the politicians and market generally, but they will have to be prepared to buy an awful lot of them." analysts at barclays capital said: "neither treasuries nor the us dollar are likely to be rocked by the s&p downgrade of the us. instead, the downgrade is another reason to expect 'risky' assets will come under pressure."
europe's bank acts to ease debt crisis and calm markets the european central bank has moved to halt europe's runaway debt crisis by pledging to buy government bonds from italy and spain. the move to prop up europe's struggling nations came after a day of frantic discussions between the finance ministers of the world's leading economies. markets open for the first time since standard & poor's decision to cut the us's credit rating from aaa late on friday. in a statement, the ecb said it welcomed announcements by spain and italy of "new measures and reforms" aimed at the financial problems and urged both governments to roll them out swiftly. the agreement of the bank's policy-making governing council is a watershed moment for the ecb. the central bank has so far insisted that the main responsibility for acting lies with national governments. but last week a more modest bond buying effort failed to halt the european slide. the ecb said it had taken note of a statement by france and germany released on sunday stressing their commitment to european financial reforms. silvio berlusconi's government cobbled together an emergency austerity package for italy late on friday to placate the bond markets. italy's borrowing costs shot up last week amid fears that its debts have become unsustainable. the tokyo stock exchange opened down 1.4% after the announcement, the first test of the move ahead of the opening of european and us markets. us markets also looked set to open down with futures traders betting the markets would open below friday's closing prices. in the uk, there are growing fears that the crisis could shatter fragile consumer and business confidence and increase the risk that the already weak economy plunges into a double-dip recession. david blanchflower, a former member of the bank of england's monetary policy committee, said he believes there may have to be a fresh round of emergency measures perhaps as soon as this week. "i would not be the least bit surprised if the bank of england has to hold an emergency meeting in the next week," he said. "if this carries on, we're going to see further loans to the banks, further rescues of the banks. this is 2008 all over again." a treasury source said: "we have contingency plans in place. we are watching the banks very closely but there is not cause for alarm." he also stressed that britain's financial system is more resilient than during the banking crisis. george osborne, the chancellor, said the current turmoil showed that britain's approach was the right one. "individual countries need to demonstrate beyond doubt that they have credible plans to deal with excessive deficits, improve competitiveness and strengthen banking systems," he said in an editorial in the telegraph. "in this respect, britain's experience contains an invaluable lesson for all developed economies: it is possible to earn credibility and get ahead of the markets through decisive action." robert law, managing director, european banks equity research at nomura, said the problems in the eurozone were more of a concern than those relating to the us downgrade. he said the markets were looking for "permanent solution" to the eurozone rather than just purchases of bonds. "the uk banks are less involved," he said. but, he noted: "the italian government bond market is the third largest in the world and the sums involved are potentially very significant. there will be major holdings of italian bonds in major financial institutions," he said. in a note analysts at rbs marketplace welcomed the news saying it would stop the collapse of the bond market in countries under stress and buy "a significant amount of time." "this policy response is in our view necessary and welcome even if it does not address the underlying weaknesses of the system: high private and or public debt, a lack of fiscal integration, the absence of a euro area wide banking regulator with binding powers," said rbs.
america's economy: downgraded at least part of the reason for these botched calls must be the elephant-sized conflict of interest. the rating agencies are usually paid to rate companies and their products by those very same companies. that is one species of political failure, here is another: s&p made its downgrade not so much because of washington's fiscal position but because "the effectiveness, stability, and predictability of american policymaking and political institutions have weakened at a time of ongoing fiscal and economic challenges". this follows on from the debt-ceiling talks, when ms bachmann and her fellow republicans talked about a possible government default as if it were no more troubling than a trip to the spa. in short, this is the tea party's downgrade.
global leaders race to stem panic over us credit rating downgrade world leaders are battling to prevent panic from spreading across financial markets as the sudden downgrading of the us credit rating triggered fears of global turmoil when stock exchanges open. finance ministers from the g7 leading industrial countries – many of them away on summer holiday – agreed to a series of urgent weekend telephone talks to try to prevent a loss of confidence in the world's biggest economy. but the uncertainty grew when the saudi market dropped by a massive 5.5%. french finance minister françois baroin, whose country holds the g7 presidency, said he been in contact with colleagues for 24 hours. "we'll be carefully watching the evolution of what might happen on monday," he said. writing in a sunday newspaper, former prime minister gordon brown accuses angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy of failing to address the crisis and reaching "wrong conclusions, from three years of wrong analysis", which failed to address the need to stimulate growth. brown argues that "it has suited european leaders to believe that theirs is a fiscal crisis confined to the weaker states, and so they have presented their problem in a one-dimensional form – profligacy in the periphery demanding austerity, and if that fails, even more austerity." s&p's downgrading of the us credit rating on friday added to fears over debt levels and economic growth in the world's biggest economy and in large european nations, such as italy and spain. as the effect was felt across the globe, china, the largest foreign holder of us debt, issued an extraordinary demand that washington change its economic ways and address its "debt addiction". it said the rating reduction would be followed by more "devastating credit rating cuts" and global financial turbulence if the us failed to learn to "live within its means". "china, the largest creditor of the world's sole superpower, has every right to demand the united states address its structural debt problems and ensure the safety of china's dollar assets," it said. it also insisted the us should slash its "gigantic military expenditure and bloated social welfare costs", and repeated its demand for a new global reserve currency to replace the dollar. in london, opinion was split between those who believed the markets would take the us credit decision in their stride and others who believed it could trigger a series of events that would do untold damage to the global financial system. erik britton, director of fathom financial consulting, a city-based consultancy, said there was a fear that the us downgrade "will trigger a chain reaction across global bond markets that could culminate in an italian or spanish sovereign default and a systemic banking crisis". he said that us government debt had been viewed as "risk-free" by the markets, but that had now changed, meaning that the yields on us bonds would rise and their price would fall. because other bonds would be similarly affected, massive problems would result for banks worldwide, which would be left holding bonds of declining value. "a small further rise in the italian government bond yield, which could be triggered by the us downgrade, would make a default there inevitable. and that would present a systemic threat to the global financial system that would make lehmans look like a walk in the park," said britton. the treasury said the us credit rating decision was a "complete vindication" for the government's robust approach to cutting the deficit. "when this government came to power, britain's aaa rating was on negative outlook from s&p, but thanks to the decisions we've taken to deal with out debts and support a sustainable recovery our rating has been reaffirmed, helping to keep borrowing rates down for taxpayers, homeowners and businesses," said a spokesman. but shadow chancellor ed balls said the policy was not working because there was no growth in the economy. "the problem in britain is that george osborne's plan is not working. by trying to go too far and too fast, confidence has been knocked and last year's recovery has been choked off," he said.
us credit rating downgrade prompts warning from china the united states has lost its top aaa credit rating for the first time, in a move that could severely undermine the recovery of the world's largest economy and prompt further calamitous falls on world stock markets next week. ratings agency standard & poor's decision to cut the debt rating after another dire day on the world stock markets on friday could increase the cost of borrowing for the us and set off more panic selling when stock markets reopen on monday. in his weekly radio address, obama appealed to politicians from both parties to set aside partisanship and refocus on efforts to stimulate the stagnant economy. "congress reached an agreement that's going to allow us to make some progress in reducing our nation's budget deficit. and through this compromise, both parties are going to have to work together on a larger plan to get our nation's finances in order," obama said. china, the world's largest holder of us debt, condemned the "short-sighted" political wrangling in the us and said the world needed a new and stable global reserve currency. in a comment article the official xinhua news agency said china had "every right now to demand the united states address its structural debt problems and ensure the safety of china's dollar assets. international supervision over the issue of us dollars should be introduced and a new, stable and secured global reserve currency may also be an option to avert a catastrophe caused by any single country." s&p had held back cutting the rating earlier on friday after the us government reportedly questioned its maths. but the agency insisted it was going ahead with the downgrade to aa-plus, saying the deficit reduction plan passed by congress on tuesday did not go far enough to stabilise the debt situation. it is the first time s&p has issued a "negative" outlook on the us government since it began rating the credit-worthiness of railroad bonds in 1860. michael hewson, a market analyst at cmc markets, warned: "this crisis will run and run, and could make lehmans look like a tupperware party." the dramatic reversal of fortune for the world's largest economy means that us treasuries, once seen as the safest investment in the world, are now rated lower than bonds issued by countries such as the uk, germany or france. the move is likely to raise borrowing costs for the us government, companies and consumers. unnamed us officials had been telling the media that s&p's analysis was deeply flawed, but s&p said in a statement: "the downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal consolidation plan that congress and the administration recently agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary to stabilise the government's medium-term debt dynamics." britain's stock market suffered another major sell-off on friday, ending its worst week since the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 with almost £150bn wiped off the value of the country's top 100 companies. after a calamitous five days for stock markets on both sides of the atlantic, the ftse 100 closed 146 points lower at 5247 to record its third day of triple-digit declines – a trading pattern last witnessed in the immediate aftermath of lehman's bankruptcy in september 2008. better-than-feared us employment figures failed to calm the markets. a rally prompted by news that america's economy generated an extra 117,000 jobs last month fizzled out within an hour in london, after the german government ruled out providing extra money for europe's bailout fund, and rumours about the impending s&p move swirled around wall street. after the european markets closed, wall street – which had suffered a 512-point fall on thursday in one of its worse performances since 2008 – was encouraged by remarks from the spanish government that the prime minister, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, agreed with the french president nicolas sarkozy's desire for greater co-ordination. even so, the dow jones industrial average, on a day of wild fluctuations, ended just 60 points higher. tensions were also eased after italy's prime minster, silvio berlusconi, promised to accelerate austerity measures by a year, and summoned a meeting of g7 finance ministers as soon as possible. his comments followed rumours that the european central bank could reverse its hardline stance and begin buying spanish and italian government bonds in return for quicker reforms. dealers have been frustrated by the lack of urgency shown by the ecb in supporting italy and spain. during thursday's market mayhem, they had bought only bonds issued by ireland and portugal. amid fears of an escalation in the crisis, mervyn king, the governor of the bank of england, held a conference call with david cameron and the chancellor, george osborne – both on holiday – to discuss the impact of the financial crash on britain's banks and the struggling uk economy. the bank is likely to cut its growth forecast for the uk when it publishes its latest quarterly inflation report on wednesday. "they discussed the financial situation and the chancellor asked the governor for his judgment," a treasury source said. "they agreed to monitor the situation." the source said the chancellor was keeping up the pressure on eurozone leaders to carry through the terms of the second bailout of greece, which was intended to calm the markets when announced on 21 july but has failed to do so, with concerns widening to italy and spain. "what we are communicating to our european counterparts is you must deliver on what you have promised," a treasury source said. the us jobless rate went down from 9.2% to 9.1%. analysts said the increase in non-farm payrolls was bigger than the 85,000 jump expected by wall street, but the figures were not good enough to make traders feel less gloomy about the possibility of a global double-dip recession. glenn uniacke, senior dealer at moneycorp, said there was relief at the us jobs figures. "with employment growth in the world's top consumer market an indicator of the future strength of the global economy, today's non-farm payroll figures gave the markets a modest upside surprise and president obama some short-term reprieve following the blood-letting of the past week," he said. "however, the data won't stop the rot and is not sufficient to change the bearish outlook from traders, with a sustained figure of 200,000-plus needed for any major positive impact on the unemployment rate. the markets were seen swinging wildly straight after the data, unsure how to interpret the ray of light in an otherwise gloomy week." the british economist baroness vadera, a former labour minister and g20 adviser who played a role in devising a rescue package for the international banking system at the time of the 2008 crash, said the current crisis could be even worse. she told bbc newsnight: "it feels as scary, but it is different. the reason it is potentially worse is that governments stepped in [in 2008-09] all over the world and saved the banking system in order to save their economies, but now who is going to step in to save governments? "when we went into that crisis, interest rates were quite high, so we did have monetary policy to use as a tool and now we are at the outer limits of that. lastly, we are currently facing quite a lot of inflationary pressures, particularly coming from commodities and emerging markets, so our room for manoeuvre is a lot more limited."
martin rowson on the final crisis of capitalism
financial markets and governments: no one's driving a problem of power is why europe could not get its act together to lend some money to greece at a sensible rate, when its public-finance problems first became apparent in christmas 2009. had eurozone policymakers done so then they would have paid out between €30bn and €50bn, according to forecasts at the time. instead, they dithered and equivocated and came up with a bodge job. the result is that they have just sanctioned a second loan for greece, this one worth €109bn. a problem of power helps to explain how barack obama got dragged into a stupid haggling session with the republican party, and is only now focusing on what is surely the biggest issue of all: spurring job creation amid one of the most tepid economic recoveries of modern times. yesterday's labour-market survey in the us was indeed better than expectations – but that is only because expectations were so low. and there are plenty of other signs that the us economy is close to flatlining: consumer spending down; factory orders falling; the housing market still extremely weak. in autumn 2008 governments in westminster and washington did exercise power to prop up the banks and provide a small jump-start to a faltering economy. in europe there was no such concerted action to sort out the banks, which is why eurozone officials now have to conduct financial stress test after financial stress test. but even in the us and the uk, governments have all but removed their stimulus policies – with the result that both economies are now stuttering. the result may look like a financial crisis; but it is really a failure of government.
barack obama on the us economy: 'we are going to get through this ... things will get better' - video theguardian.com
market turmoil and the economics of self-harm unfortunately, getting past the current problems in financial markets won't solve the problem for the vast majority of people in europe and the united states – economics that have a large impact on most of the world, since the high-income countries are still around half of the world economy. the basic problem is that governments in these economies have got their macroeconomic policies wrong. in this regard, europe is considerably worse than the united states: at least our federal reserve has taken some positive steps in monetary policy, keeping short-term interest rates near zero since december of 2008 and creating more than $2tn in money through quantitative easing. so now we have the sad spectacle of the united states heading down the eurozone road to stagnation, after our congress, president and most of the media have reached agreement that reducing our public debt is the top national priority. this despite having more than 25 million unemployed, involuntarily working part-time, or who have dropped out of the labour force. this is absurd, of course: the deficit, at present, is overwhelmingly a result of the recession and weak recovery. that is the tragic irony of what is unfolding in the united states and europe: a lost decade in the making. and it is all self-inflicted, unnecessary and stupid.
us credit rating downgraded to aa+ by standard & poor's the united states lost its aaa credit rating late on friday night, ending another wild day on the world stock markets and prompting fears that next week could be equally as calamitous. rating agency standard & poor's decision to cut the us debt rating could have dire consequences, increasing the cost of borrowing for the us and setting off more panic selling when stock markets open again on monday. s&p had held back cutting the rating earlier in the day, after the us government reportedly questioned its maths. but the agency insisted it was cutting america's top aaa rating by one notch to aa-plus, saying the deficit reduction plan passed by congress on tuesday did not go far enough to stabilise its debt situation. this is the first time that s&p has issued a "negative" outlook on the us government since it began rating the credit-worthiness of railroad bonds in 1860. the dramatic reversal of fortune for the world's largest economy means that us treasuries, once seen as the safest investment in the world, are now rated lower than bonds issued by countries such as the uk, germany or france. the move is likely to raise borrowing costs for the american government, companies and consumers. unnamed us officials had been telling the media that s&p's analysis was deeply flawed, but s&p later said in its statement : "the downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal consolidation plan that congress and the administration recently agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary to stabilise the government's medium-term debt dynamics." the news came at the end of a day when britain's stock market suffered another major sell-off, ending its worst week since the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 with almost £150bn wiped off the value of the country's top 100 companies. better-than-feared american employment figures failed to calm the world's stock markets as the week of turmoil ended with fresh gyrations in share prices. a rally prompted by news that the america's economy generated an extra 117,000 jobs last month fizzled out within an hour in london, after the german government ruled out providing extra money for europe's bailout fund, and rumours about the impending s&p move swirled around wall street. but after european markets closed, wall street – which had suffered a 512-point fall on thursday in one of its worse performances since the 2008 financial crisis – was encouraged by remarks from the spanish government that prime minister josé luis rodríguez zapatero agreed with french president nicolas sarkozy's desire for greater co-ordination. his comments followed rumours that the european central bank could reverse its hardline stance and begin buying spanish and italian government bonds in return for quicker reforms. dealers have been frustrated by the lack of urgency shown by the ecb in supporting italy and spain. during thursday's market mayhem, they had bought only bonds issued by ireland and portugal. amid fears of an escalation in the crisis, mervyn king, the governor of the bank of england, held a conference call with david cameron and the chancellor, george osborne – both on holiday – to discuss the impact of the financial crash on britain's banks and the struggling uk economy. germany's angela merkel, the german chancellor, was also preparing to discuss the situation with us president barack obama. the bank is likely to cut its growth forecast for the uk when it publishes its latest quarterly inflation report on wednesday. "they discussed the financial situation and the chancellor asked the governor for his judgment," a treasury source said. "they agreed to monitor the situation." the treasury source said the chancellor was keeping up the pressure on eurozone leaders to carry through the terms of the second bailout of greece, which was intended to calm the markets when announced on 21 july but has failed to do so, with concerns widening to italy and spain. "what we are communicating to our european counterparts is you must deliver on what you have promised," a treasury source said. stephen hester, chief executive of royal bank of scotland, which reported a loss for the first half of the year, also called on european leaders to take action but stressed the need for calm despite the wild gyrations in share prices. "the best we can do is keep our heads down, be calm and purposeful," he said. rbs's finance director, bruce van saun, admitted the atmosphere "feels pretty bad", but said: "i don't think it's as bad [as 2008]. i don't think banks will topple as they did, because they've got more capital and liquidity." the us jobless rate went down from 9.2% to 9.1%. analysts said that while the increase in non-farm payrolls was bigger than the 85,000 jump expected by wall street, the figures were not good enough to make traders feel less gloomy about the possibility of a global double-dip recession. glenn uniacke, senior dealer at moneycorp, said there was relief at the us jobs figures. "with employment growth in the world's top consumer market an indicator of the future strength of the global economy, today's non-farm payroll figures gave the markets a modest upside surprise and president obama some short-term reprieve following the blood-letting of the past week," he said. "however, the data won't stop the rot and is not sufficient to change the bearish outlook from traders, with a sustained figure of 200,000-plus needed for any major positive impact on the unemployment rate. the markets were seen swinging wildly straight after the data, unsure how to interpret the ray of light in an otherwise gloomy week." a breakdown of the report from the labour department showed private sector payrolls up by 154,000, while government jobs fell 37,000. us factories hired an additional 24,000 people, while retail, education and retail showed strong increases. the separate household survey, used to calculate the 9.1% unemployment rate, showed employment falling 38,000 and unemployment falling 156,000, with 193,000 people leaving the workforce. michael derks, chief strategist at fxpro such, said there was a "growing pool of discouraged workers", that had left only 58.1% of americans of working age in employment, the lowest level for 30 years. analysts said attention was switching to the federal reserve, america's central bank, which has a policy meeting next week, to see if it was contemplating a third round of electronic money creation through quantitative easing. "next week's us data shouldn't be too bad with retail sales set to rise healthily given the already released auto sales," said james knightley at ing. "as a result, the fed is likely to be more cautious on the outlook, but steer clear of further qe (quantitative easing) for now. that said, recent activity has been poor, and the downward gdp revisions show the economy has more spare capacity than previously thought."
value of bailed out banks rbs and lloyds drops by £30bn shares in the bailed-out bank, in which the taxpayer owns an 83% stake, fell to 24p as the market opened, before hitting a high of 30p and eventually ending 7% lower at 28p. the moves were so violent that between 8:06am and 8:53 they were suspended three times, for five minutes each time. the taxpayer breaks even when the shares hit 51p so at last night's close, the paper loss was almost £20bn "we're in an environment which is tougher and more worrying than anyone would have hoped for at this stage," hester said. the share price is also being affected by the ongoing work of the independent commission on banking and hester reiterated his opposition to the idea of ringfencing high street operations from "casino" investment banking arms. "we believe [ringfencing] might actually result in increased risk whilst costs to banks and the broader economy could be significant. the case for going further than the international reforms under way is unproven. "the economic and market backdrop also suggest that further change may be ill-timed," he said. hester also had a message for the eurozone "to give confidence that its [member] governments will play their proper role in providing stability and liquidity to other governments."
global markets on the brink of crisis the world's financial markets closed for business nursing losses of more than $2.5 tn (£1.53tn) after a week of turbulent selling not seen since the dark days of late 2008, when the big beasts of banking were forced to beg for government help and the global economy was gripped by its worst recession since the 1930s. hundreds of billions of pounds have been wiped off share prices in london. across the atlantic, wall street alone was staring at losses of $2tn or more after a fortnight of almost incessant selling. front pages again carried pictures of traders with their heads in their hands looking at a sea of red on their computer screens. the jagged downward lines of share price indices pointed the way in which the world economy seems to have turned after a week that has left the financial system on the brink of another global crisis. it seems that the problems that first emerged at the outset of the credit crunch four years ago almost to this very day – the unofficial anniversary is this coming tuesday, 9 august – never went away despite billions of taxpayer support for the system. louise cooper, an analyst at bgc partners, said city traders were starting to "feel the fear. the banking industry is yet again facing a crisis – we are not yet at the post-lehman days, but the system is creaking loudly. the horrible reality is that those leaders in charge of our economy have no answers." even a jobs boost for the us was not enough to lift the mood of deep gloom which had descended over financial markets seven days ago. on a sweltering morning in washington dc last friday, the latest health check on the us economy was broadcast around the world , and at first glance the prognosis was bad. the us economy, official figures showed, barely grew in the second quarter of 2011. on closer examination, the bulletin was even worse. revisions to past data showed that the plunge in activity during the recession had been deeper than originally believed and the recovery much weaker. those us growth figures kicked off a week of mayhem in the world's financial markets. they were, according to nick parsons, head of strategy at national australia bank, a real "game changer" because up until last friday, us policy makers could shrug off poor data as simply a soft patch for the economy. "but, with no momentum in the economy, a recession much deeper than thought and a recovery which hadn't even regained the lost ground after three and a half years, data disappointments can no longer just be shrugged off," parsons said. "they're the new reality, and the new reality sucks." across the atlantic, a second shoe was about to fall. barely a week after the leaders of the 17 nations of the eurozone had hailed as historic a package that offered fresh help for greece and the promise of pre-emptive support for any other member of the single currency that fell foul of jittery bond market investors, the deal was already unravelling. the immediate cause for concern was not one of the usual suspects but cyprus, one of the smallest members of the euro club and which appeared to be the next country likely to need financial help. but events at the eastern end of the med were just the sign of worse to come from its bigger partners. much worse. by the time wall street dealers had returned from their weekends in the hamptons, there was more poor economic data to digest, and not just from the us this time. the first day of each month sees the release of reports on manufacturing from around the world. in the uk, china, the eurozone and the us, the message was the same: activity was slowing, in some cases to the point where industrial output was stalling. tuesday saw the focus switch back to europe, where the interest rates on spanish and italian bonds rose above the level deemed critical in the financial markets – 6% – and to their highest levels since the creation of the single currency. spain's prime minister, josé luis zapatero, said he was postponing his holiday plans. italy held an emergency meeting of economic policy makers. and so the scene was set for black thursday, a day when all the pieces of the jigsaw slotted together. there was a thumping loss for the partly nationalised lloyds bank. there was criticism from josé manuel barroso, president of the european commission, of the snail's pace at which european leaders were responding to the crisis. this from the man who had been insisting europe was finally on top of its crisis. the european central bank appeared to be doing the bare minimum to defuse the tension. speculation that the single currency could unravel meshed with concern that the us was about to go into a double-dip recession, with knock-on effects for the global economy. the ftse was down almost 200 points. oil prices fell by 5%. the swiss and japanese central banks intervened. gold rose to new record levels before falling back amid reports that hedge funds were selling their holdings to cover losses. washington woke up to another scorching day and some brief respite from better than expected jobs figures. but those market graphs soon turned downwards again. the forecast from traders is for more stormy weather.
global stock market crash - video analysis nervous investors dump stocks as fears about the strength of the us economy and european debt crisis grip markets us banks particularly badly hit as president looks for an extension of tax cuts to boost world's economy
the stock market crash: how it affects you the closure of final salary-based pensions and the shift to ones dependent on the stockmarket means this week's falls are more painful than ever for millions of workers. the ftse 100 has fallen by a tenth in the space of just four weeks, and at the time of writing is tumbling further. worst hit are those approaching retirement: they won't be able to make up the losses. what's more, the turmoil in markets has sent annuity rates to rock-bottom lows. annuity rates determine how much pension income you get in return for the money you saved during your lifetime, so this means pensioners retiring today will see a lower income. last time around, when northern rock and then the icelandic banks crashed, there was real panic about the security of savings. this time around the banks at the centre of the storm – italian ones such as unicredit and intesa – are virtually invisible on the uk high street. if spain moves centre stage then expect a rumble of concern about santander, although it has passed stringent eu tests on its capital strength. here's the silver lining. while the italians and spanish have seen money market interest rates shoot beyond 6%, the reverse is happening in the uk. short-term money has, oddly enough, become cheaper, as markets now think the bank of england won't raise interest rates until well into 2012. in the past few days banks and building societies have been rushing out rate cuts on nearly all their deals, so if you're coming off an expensive fixed-rate mortgage you're one of the lucky ones. but the new banking crisis is probably bad news for first-time buyers, effectively shut out of the market by demands for huge deposits. this is unlikely to ease any time soon as banks do everything they can to preserve their capital. bad news. e.on this morning raised its prices by 18.1% for gas and 11.4% for electricity. however, if the wholesale price of gas and electricity tracks the price of oil, as it tends to do, maybe households will see an easing off in further price rises. but the utility companies have a long history of failing to pass on price falls in the wholesale market, so don't expect price cuts in the short term. bad luck if your fund took a bet on european banks recovering. ones that can play markets going down (the hedge funds and ucits iii funds) may in some cases have benefited. this morning, financial advisers were telling clients that the important thing is diversification, although one of the features of the 2008-09 market decline is that all asset classes – equities, bonds, property – went down, so diversification didn't pay off much. the big play of the past few years – mining and commodity stocks fuelled by voracious demand from china and other emerging markets – will look exposed if global growth slows. but gold continues to shine. yesterday it went up another $10 to $1,679 an ounce, and while markets remain in panic, is likely to advance further.
france feels the economic force of the credit ratings agencies although the finance minister, françois baroin, said the figures were "not a surprise", consumer spending in france dipped alarmingly last month and the government may now have to find even deeper budget cuts to meet its deficit reduction targets. "after last week's downgrade of us bonds by standard and poor's (s&p), paddy power are now taking bets on which will be the next country to be downgraded from its aaa rating by the agency," the bookmaker announced on thursday, taking bets on this eventuality for the first time in its history and illustrating the extent to which the ratings agencies have been thrust into the mainstream. for example, david t beers, the s&p boss who took the decision, was given a wikipedia page for his trouble – moving one of the world's lowest profile, but most powerful financial players, into the spotlight for the first time. tracing their roots back to the 1860s when they analysed the risks associated with lending to and investing in america's rapidly growing railroad system, the ratings agencies enjoyed life in the shadows for at least their first century. during that time they morphed into hugely powerful organisations, analysing and rating debts attached to everything from companies and governments to bonds and packages of mortgages, just as consumer credit agencies assign individuals a score based on their financial history. although confidence in the agencies has been dented by criticism that they failed to spot the us sub-prime mortgage crisis, their ratings are still taken as gospel by much of the investment community, with banks, pension funds and treasuries governed largely by their grading system. as such, their ratings can ripple across the global economy all the way down to influencing mortgage rates, credit cards and car loans, which are priced, in part, against sovereign debt. not to mention their influence on general investor confidence and the stock markets. the ratings process is intensive, as armies of analysts pore over their subjects' accounts and phone their contacts in the government, media, academia, banking and industry, digging for any information that affects their credit risk in a procedure that is part egg-headed economist and part gumshoe. the top credit rating is aaa, essentially implying zero risk to the lender, which the us lost this month and which the uk has managed, so far, to retain. although each agency uses different codes to represent the slide down the ratings scale, the principle is the same – the lower the rating, the greater the risk and the more interest is likely to be demanded by the borrower to compensate for the increased chance they will not be repaid. each of the "big three" agencies of s&p, moody's and fitch, divide their scale into two categories: known as investment grade, which is relatively safe, and non-investment grade, or "junk" status which is not. portugal, greece and ireland have all been downgraded to junk status as the european sovereign debt crisis has escalated. there are a total of 10 ratings agencies, such as rapid ratings, but the big three are by far the most influential. the first time the ratings agencies drew any real criticism was in 2001, when some questioned why it was that the big-three agencies had been rating enron as investment grade just four days before the meltdown of the us energy trading firm. in 2007, they came in for condemnation for their part in the financial crisis, as critics accused them of failing to identify the risks attached to sub-prime mortgages. an investigation by the us securities and exchange commission (sec) and the new york attorney general focused on whether the agencies are compromised by earning fees from the banks that issue the debt they rate. the report savaged the industry and contained dozens of internal emails that suggested they had betrayed investors' trust. "let's hope we are all wealthy and retired by the time this house of cards falters," one unnamed s&p analyst wrote. in another, an s&p employee wrote: "it could be structured by cows and we would rate it." earlier this summer, the agencies endured further criticism, this time from european politicians who complained that their various downgrades and comments about the region's debt problems were exacerbating the problem. but while bankers and politicians realised the importance of the agencies – and attempted to challenge their dominance, in one case calling for some of their comments on the latest greek debt rescue package to be ignored – the general public remained, by and large, in the dark about their activities and their significance. all that changed on 5 august, when s&p took an until recently unthinkable step and stripped america of its aaa rating. this psychologically damaging development will go down as a milestone in the decline of us global economic dominance, and it fuelled the panic that has driven down stock markets around the world. although the other two of the big-three ratings agencies have kept their gold-plated ratings on us debt for now, both are watching the situation closely, while a downgrade of this nature from even one of the agencies is an historic event. in other words, opponents of the ratings agencies believe the us government is being punished for bailing the economy out of a problem for which they hold the big three partly responsible, because of their failure to highlight the dangers of the toxic sub-prime mortgages that triggered the recession. as paul krugman, the nobel prizewinning economist, said in the new york times last week: "it's hard to think of anyone less qualified to pass judgment on america than the ratings agencies. the people who rated sub-prime-backed securities are now declaring that they are the judges of fiscal policy? really?". that the ratings agencies failed to spot the difficulties embedded in swathes of toxic debt early enough is beyond doubt. but they are hardly alone in an investment industry that turned a blind eye on a mass scale and failed to ask the right questions. likewise, they are not alone in identifying that the us is in well over its head debt-wise, whether the obama administration likes it or not. some critics have pointed out that there is potential for conflict of interest when agencies rate non-government debt issuers because they are paid by those they judge – a topic high on the agenda of us lawmakers looking to improve the ratings process. there is no such incentive for sovereign ratings which are provided free of charge to the country. now that the us has lost its aaa rating, issues such as how ratings agencies make their money have been catapulted from obscurity into potential topics for dinner-table discussion. while they are on the subject, they may also discuss placing a bet on which of the 18 remaining aaa-rated countries will be next to lose its gold plating. and so the scene is set for a wikipedia entry for david t beers, who we learn is a "mustachioed, chain-smoking head of sovereign credit ratings for s&p". future entries could have a major bearing on how the debt drama ends.
four countries ban short-selling to ease market pressure france, italy, spain and belgium are banning short-selling or the holding of short positions from friday. after a week of turmoil on the european financial markets that has seen stocks come under ferocious pressure – especially french banks – the european securities and markets authority said short-selling would be banned by the four countries. "some authorities have decided to impose or extend existing short-selling bans in their respective countries," it said in a statement last night. "they have done so either to restrict the benefits that can be achieved from spreading false rumours or to achieve a regulatory level playing field, given the close interlinkage between some eu markets." however, the bourses failed to convince other markets such as the uk to introduce a similar ban. "it is the worst thing to do right now. this would signal to the market that there may be something fundamentally bad that is happening," abraham lioui, a professor at the edhec business school in france, told the financial times. shares in société générale, bnp paribas and crédit agricole, all heavily exposed to the greek economy, dropped sharply on thursday morning before recovering ground in the afternoon. the sell-off appeared to have been prompted by a reuters report that an asian bank had cut its credit lines to french banks, and five asian banks were reviewing their exposure to france. french banks are under pressure again despite the governor of the country's central bank saying its banks were in "perfectly satisfactory condition". christian noyer's statement was not enough to reassure investors that french banks had enough capital to cope with a sovereign downgrade or a greek default. analysts said the persistent chatter that banks might be in serious difficulties was reminiscent of the runup to the 2008 financial crisis. "with banking rumours surfacing, it feels like the runup to lehman's collapse, where banks don't trust each other," said commerzbank strategist christoph rieger. stephen snowden, a fixed income manager at aegon asset management, said: "the credit market is substantially broken as we speak." long-only funds were cutting their exposure to banks, and aegon had recently sold down its investments in bnp paribas, unicredit, credit agricole and belgium's kbc. noyer said banks' capital levels "are adequate, and their medium-to-long-term financing programmes are being carried out in perfectly satisfactory conditions". frédéric oudéa, société générale's chief executive, described rumours that the bank was in serious financial difficulty as a "complete fantasy". however, investors suggested that société générale, which lost €4.9bn in the jérôme kerviel rogue trader scandal in 2008, may have to raise about €3bn to reach new global capital standards if the eurozone debt crisis deepens. the bank's shares closed up 3.7% to €23. south korea has initiated a three-month ban, and the turkish bourse closed up after new rules obliged short-sellers to deposit collateral equal to 70% of the value of stocks borrowed for shorting, up from 50% previously.
george osborne: the do-nothing chancellor
bank of france governor fails to calm investors over capital strength french banks are under pressure again despite the governor of the country's central bank saying its banks were in "perfectly satisfactory condition". christian noyer's statement was not enough to reassure investors that french banks had enough capital to cope with a sovereign downgrade or a greek default. analysts said the persistent chatter that banks might be in serious difficulties was reminiscent of the run-up to the 2008 financial crisis. "with banking rumours surfacing, it feels like the run-up to lehman's collapse, where banks don't trust each other," said commerzbank strategist christoph rieger. stephen snowden, a fixed income manager at aegon asset management, said: "the credit market is substantially broken as we speak." long-only funds were cutting their exposure to banks, and aegon had recently sold down its investments in bnp paribas, unicredit, credit agricole and belgium's kbc." noyer said banks' capital levels "are adequate, and their medium- to long-term financing programmes are being carried out in perfectly satisfactory conditions". frédéric oudéa, société générale's chief executive, described rumours that the bank was in serious financial difficulty as a "complete fantasy".
george osborne on the economy: the recovery will be longer and harder than we had hoped - video source: reuters
european stock markets rally as fears of france downgrade abate stock markets rallied on thursday morning as fears of a french debt downgrade abated, and the italian finance minister prepared to present an austerity budget. france's cac and germany's dax both rebounded 2.4% in early trading, while italy's mib was up 1.3%, spain's ibex added 1% and portugal's psi rose 1.8%. despite speculation about an imminent downgrade of france by s&p, analysts said this was unlikely. "s&p is not going to downgrade france any time soon. nor are moody's or fitch," said gary jenkins, head of fixed income research at evolution securities. he noted s&p's statement last week when it cut the us aaa rating. "when comparing the us to sovereigns with aaa long term ratings … the trajectory of the us's net public debt is diverging from the others … in contrast with the us, we project that the net public debt burdens of these other [aaa rated, including france] sovereigns will begin to decline, either before or by 2015." this statement gives france some time, jenkins said. "growth will be the key to the stability of the ratings for france, the uk and the us over the next 12 months. as we have said before significant slippage from agency expectations could well put pressure on the ratings of all three by this time next year and no doubt there will be a lot of attention on the french gdp numbers out this friday. france faces one extra challenge to the others which is a possible build-up of contingent liabilities in order to assist other eu sovereigns." "the downgrade by fitch of cyprus to 'bbb' with a negative outlook was a timely reminder of the interdependency of european countries and their banking systems," said michael hewson, market analyst at cmc markets. "despite reaffirmation by all three ratings agencies of france's sovereign rating investors remain exceedingly cautious as spreads continue to widen between french and german bond yields. the fact is the european banking system is creaking like an old ocean galleon and despite the largely successful attempts by the european central bank to push 10-year bond yields for italy and spain lower, the reality is they will need to buy an awful lot more to get them down to sustainable levels well below 5%." since the ecb started buying up italian and spanish debt on monday, the yield, or interest rate, on the 10-year italian government bond has fallen from over 6% to 5.06% while the spanish equivalent is at 5.02%.
debt crisis: share prices slump in response to france deficit fears that french banks were in difficulties meant that the rally in shares prompted by the us federal reserve on tuesday proved to be shortlived, with markets resuming the pattern of heavy selling seen since late july. britain's ftse 100 index suffered its fourth fall of more than 100 points in five days, dropping 158 points to close the day 3% lower at 5007 points. despite tuesday's gain of 95 points, the ftse 100 has now dropped by 866 points since july 29, wiping a total of £226bn off the value of the uk's biggest quoted companies. the jittery mood sent investors piling into the safe havens of gold and bonds. bullion rose to a record high, briefly breaking through the $1,800 an ounce level, while bond yields in both britain and the uk dropped sharply on expectations that dismal growth prospects would result in ultra-low interest rates for two years. in london, the interest rate on 10-year gilts fell to 2.47% in the biggest one-day drop since the bank of england announced in march 2009 that it would pump £200bn of electronic money into the economy through quantitative easing. mervyn king, the bank's governor, said threadneedle street had become gloomier about the economy's prospects over the past three months and expressed concern about the recent market turbulence. "there are a number of headwinds to world and domestic growth, not least the private and public debt overhang. and these headwinds are becoming stronger by the day," king said as he revealed that the bank had trimmed its growth forecast for the uk to around 1.5% this year and 2% in 2012. he added that in the view of the bank's nine-strong monetary policy committee "the weakness in activity was likely to be somewhat more persistent than previously expected". against a backdrop of an economy that has grown by less than 1% in the past year, city analysts said there now appeared to be little chance of borrowing costs rising until the end of 2012 at the earliest. king also stressed that the bank would consider a fresh round of quantitative easing should there be a risk that the weakness of the economy pushing inflation significantly below its 2% target. king said: "the greatest risks to the prospects for global demand come from the euro area and the substantial challenges faced by several member countries as they seek to ensure the sustainability of their fiscal positions and preserve the stability of their banking systems." jean-louis nakamura, chief investment officer, asset allocation group at lombard odier investment managers, said: "the current economic environment is showing us that while both the united states and eurozone have budget problems, the two aren't comparable. while the us suffered a one-off political problem, it doesn't have a deeper institutional issue. in contrast, the eurozone's structures for coping with its debt problems at the relevant monetary union level aren't even in place, let alone operational."
king warns of harsh winds ahead as bank cuts growth forecast city analysts predicted that interest rates would remain at their record low of 0.5% until 2013, after the governor used his quarterly inflation report briefing to warn that the uk could not be isolated from the turmoil in the global economy. as george osborne, the chancellor, prepared to address the house of commons on thursday on the risks for the uk from the mayhem in world financial markets, the bank's nine-member monetary policy committee (mpc) downgraded its growth forecast to about 1.5% this year. that was down from 1.8% in its last report three months ago, and weaker than the 1.7% pencilled in by the office for budget responsibility. king warned that the bank's number-crunchers had not included in their forecasts what he called "the unimaginable and the unmentionable" – risks impossible to quantify, such as a full-blown sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone. "it is very important that we do not see the development of a sovereign debt crisis." for 2012, the bank is now projecting growth of about 2%, against the obr's 2.5%. it expects cash-strapped consumers, hit by tax rises and rapid increases in the cost of living, to continue tightening their belts. "the squeeze in households' real incomes is likely to continue to weigh on domestic demand, especially over the next year or so," the mpc said in the report. "but expansionary monetary policy, prospective growth in global demand and the current level of sterling should mean that, after some near-term weakness, gdp growth picks up." king said that the drama in the markets reflected the fact that the imbalances built up in the global economy during the boom years had still not been resolved, and the bank would be unable to cushion the uk from the fallout. "there's a limit to what monetary policy can do," he said. "there are significant adjustments that need to be made." the governor rejected the idea that the bank could follow the us federal reserve and make a long-term commitment to keep interest rates at current levels, however. in a bid to calm chaotic financial markets, the fed suggested on tuesday that borrowing costs would remain at their current exceptionally low levels until 2013. but king argued: "i think it's very dangerous to try to make a commitment. to lock in monetary policy now for two years does not seem to me to be particularly sensible." he added that financial markets in britain already expected interest rates to be held for the foreseeable future. george buckley, chief uk economist at deutsche bank, noted that the bank's forecasts suggested that without fresh monetary stimulus, such as a new round of quantitative easing, inflation would be below the mpc's 2% target in two years. "the bank's signalling may be less obvious than that of the fed, but in its own way it is telling us that rates are likely to remain low for a long period," added buckley. after king's bearish assessment, rbs joined other city banks in forecasting that there would be no rise in interest rates until 2013 at the earliest. the mpc expects inflation to peak later this year at about 5%, driven by soaring utilities bills, but to fall rapidly in 2012, as the effect of oil price rises and the vat increase wear off. the mpc's analysis suggested the deep recession that followed the credit crunch has left lasting scars on the economy. "output is likely to remain significantly below its pre-recession trend," it said, warning that even by 2014, gdp growth is only, "a little more likely to be above its historical average than below it". brendan barber, tuc general secretary, said: "this recovery is already the slowest on record, and the bank's assessment that it may take another three years for us just to recover lost ground shows that the pain is set to continue for some time." king said it was far too soon to say whether there was any connection between economic weakness and the riots. he stressed that the private sector had created many more jobs than had been lost through public-sector cuts over the past 12 months. the risks too scary for the bank of england to calculate: eurozone break-up as the continued sell-off in european markets makes clear, the future of the single currency looks alarmingly uncertain. perhaps hard-hit greece will decide it's had enough and leave – or maybe the entire 17-member bloc will be blown apart. middle east conflagration a worst-case scenario has the stand-off in libya and the syrian unrest spiral into a much wider conflict, sending world oil prices rocketing. 1930s-style protectionism as mervyn king said, creditors and debtors – east and west, china and the us – still have to work out how to share losses from the financial crisis. the pain could be evenly shared or end in a tit-for-tat trade war, with everyone worse off. military conflict the world economy is already perilously weak, and confidence is in tatters. any sabre-rattling, from north korea to the caucasus, could be shattering.
groupon drops accounting measure used in sec filing ahead of ipo groupon, the loss-making daily discount deals website, has abandoned an unusual accounting method in its initial public offering (ipo) documents after intense scrutiny from us regulators. regulators and potential investors have pored over the fledgling internet firm's documents since it filed plans in june to raise $750m (£460m) in an ipo. the high-profile flotation would potentially value groupon at just over $20bn. andrew mason, groupon chief executive, said in the filing: "we exclude those costs because, unlike our other marketing expenses, they are an up-front investment to acquire new subscribers that we expect to end when this period of rapid expansion in our subscriber base concludes. "while we track this management metric internally to gauge our performance, we encourage you to base your investment decision on whatever metrics make you comfortable." the two-year-old internet firm's path to flotation has been far from smooth. speaking to potential investors in june, mason warned of "twists and turns, moments of brilliance and other moments of sheer stupidity" before its wall street debut. analysts have continually cast doubt on the company's $20bn valuation. sucharita mulpuru, an analyst at forrester research, said: "it's not based on logic – it's based on whatever the highest bidder will pay for the company." groupon's updated s-1 filing shows that the company's second-quarter loss more than doubled as it hired more than 1,000 new staff. the company's second-quarter deficit jumped to $102.7m, up from the $36.8m loss in the same period last year. revenue at the fast-growing online discount firm rose to $878m in the second quarter of 2011, compared with $645m in the first quarter and up from $87m in the second quarter of 2010. groupon's marketing spend reached $170m in the second quarter of this year as its subscriber numbers leapt to 116 million, from 83.1m in the previous quarter. groupon is one of several highly valued internet firms poised to make their stock market debut. however, the prospects for public offerings from companies such as groupon and the social gaming firm zynga has weakened in recent days as several newly public companies saw their share prices fall sharply as financial markets plummeted. linkedin, the social network for business professionals, became the poster child of a new internet bubble when its shares changed hands at $90 – almost double their asking price – during its $8.5bn flotation in may. on thursday evening, linkedin shares were down 12% at $80 apiece.
are stock market wobbles a crisis or an opportunity? this kind of volatility is likely to persist as long as uncertainties remain about the sustainability of economic growth and while investors continue to be unimpressed by the policy response on both sides of the atlantic. moreover, the sharp falls in the value of markets will have real consequences in terms of consumer and business sentiment. it could take months for the market as a whole to heal. against this backdrop, our fund managers are finding many opportunities to buy good companies at great prices. as one said, "this is the opportunity to buy what i've always wanted to own". we believe that asian markets in particular are oversold. the region enjoys robust economic fundamentals and its shares now trade at historically attractive valuations. indeed, asian shares could be the real winners in the current environment thanks to a healthy financial system, strong domestic demand, low debt levels and high savings rates, which should continue to support a growth cycle lasting many more years. closer to home, too, there are plenty of good ideas. despite the worrying economic outlook, many companies are doing well, especially those with an exposure to emerging markets, which is the case with many of the companies listed on london's increasingly international market. the dividend yields offered by many blue-chip companies are cheap versus history and offer a much more attractive income than other investments such as cash and government bonds. the market will most likely both rise and fall again. what really matters, though, is that at today's prices there are many extremely attractive individual investment opportunities at prices that will, in due course, come to look very cheap. the first doubts about these assumptions arose when currency strains meant easy fiscal policies were no longer tenable for countries with over-indebted governments. furthermore, rounds of central bank asset purchases, it seemed, were more effective in raising raw material costs than in supporting real demand. finally, economic growth itself was disappointing compared with what investors had expected. what financial markets are beginning to realise is that they face not a recession but an economic depression, at least in the advanced economies. a depression is best defined as a prolonged period of below-trend economic performance in which the efforts of the authorities to bring improvement turn out to be ineffective. official policy has lost traction for two reasons. past policy excesses have created serious imbalances within and between economies. at best, this reduces the effectiveness of policy; at worst, it undermines the credibility of policymakers. then again, the advanced economies are no longer arbiters of their economic fate. their inflation rates increasingly reflect costs of production in the emerging economies, which in a globalised market are often the lowest-cost suppliers. at the same time, a shrinking share of world output is attributable to the advanced sector. all this might not matter to the multinational companies whose stocks figure in the major market indices. they have operations in emerging as well as advanced nations. indeed, their profits have been growing healthily for several quarters past. but stock values do not reflect company earnings directly. they depend crucially on the liquidity and confidence of investors who are predominantly based in the ailing advanced sector. as long as that sector remains in depression, stock prices are likely to languish.
global markets rally on us federal reserve's economic stimulus asian markets also rose, with japan's nikkei climbing 94.26 points, or 1.05%, to 9038.74 while hong kong's hang seng added 495.16 points, or 2.56%, to 19,825.86. america's central bank said it expected "a somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters than it did at the time of the previous meeting". it added that it had discussed "the range of policy tools" it could use to boost the economy. there is speculation that this could include a fresh round of bond-buying, known as quantitative easing, or qe3.
federal reserve pledges to keep interest rates low for two years america's central bank pledged to peg interest rates at their ultra-low level for a further two years to boost growth in the world's biggest economy. but the us federal reserve made no commitment to begin a third round of quantitative easing, the process of electronic money creation that has pumped $2tn (£1.2tn) into the us banking system over the past two and a half years. the announcement came as wall street was making a tentative recovery from the heavy falls of the past two weeks, but provided little boost to share prices. in a statement, the fed said it expected "a somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters than it did at the time of the previous meeting" and anticipated that a jobless rate of about 9% would decline only gradually towards the level judged by the central bank to be consistent with keeping inflation low and employment high. it added that economic conditions were "likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013", and had looked at a range of policy tools to promote a stronger low-inflation recovery. these would be employed "as appropriate" in the light of fresh information on the economy. previously, the fed had said it would keep borrowing costs low for an "extended period" but the commitment to maintain them at an exceptionally low level led to three members of the policymaking open market committee dissenting from the decision, the first time this has happened for almost 20 years. the dow jones industrial average of us blue chip stocks had been up 100 points before the fed's statement but was 150 points lower half an hour later. it regained those losses and closed up 430 points, a 4% rise for the day.
federal reserve's interest rates pledge boosts wall street confidence wall street bounced back on tuesday from the worst stock market crash in two years as the us government moved to halt the fall and pledged to keep interest rates near zero until 2013. the rally followed one of the worst days on world stock markets since lehman brothers collapsed in 2008, setting off the financial crisis. monday's crash came as investors reacted to standard & poor's decision to cut the us credit rating, a historic first that was slammed by the white house. the swings in share prices on wall street mirrored wild gyrations in the ftse earlier in the day, which saw the city's main share index down more than 250 points during the morning before rallying to finish up 96 at 5165 points. the rise meant that the ftse avoided falling for eight consecutive days in a row for the first time since the build up to the invasion of iraq in early 2003. european shares ended broadly higher, halting a 20% dive over the previous two and a half weeks. bernanke stopped short of committing to a third round of quantitative easing, the process of electronic money creation that has pumped $2tn (£1.2tn) into the us banking system over the past two and a half years. the fed said it expected "a somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters than it did at the time of the previous meeting" and anticipated that a jobless rate of about 9% would decline only gradually towards the level judged by the central bank to be consistent with keeping inflation low and employment high. it added that economic conditions were "likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013", and had looked at a range of policy tools to promote a stronger low-inflation recovery. these would be employed "as appropriate" in the light of fresh information on the economy. previously, the fed had said it would keep borrowing costs low for an "extended period" but the commitment to maintain them at an exceptionally low level led to three members of the policy-making open market committee dissenting from the decision, the first time this has happened for almost 20 years. the prospect of low growth also drove interest rates on us bonds lower. the yield on the benchmark 10-year treasury bill dropped to 2.27% compared to 2.34% at the start of the day.
cost of insuring british bank debt hits credit crunch levels some £45bn of taxpayer funds have been pumped into rbs to keep it afloat since 2008 and the bank has amassed more capital and liquidity. the crucial core tier one ratio was 11.1% at the end of june – well above the regulatory minimum. lloyds has received some £17bn of taxpayer funds and also has a capital ratio well above minimum requirements and paid back all the funds its received through the special liquidity scheme to demonstrate how it is able to raise funds on the money markets. barclays, which slumped as low as 155p, ended 2% down at 179p while hsbc, which admitted it was in advanced talks to sell its us credit card arm, slumped to 500p before ending higher at 545p. on the fourth anniversary of the beginning of the credit crunch, there were also tensions in the money markets with high demand for cash at a scheduled tender by the european central bank. much watched three-month libor – the rate at which banks lend to each other – nudged higher to 0.84%. but unlike the period during the crisis that gripped the markets in august 2007, liquidity is still available due to the actions of central banks. amid continued anxiety about the eurozone debt crisis and the weakness of the us economy, there was a brief respite for bank of america, the largest bank in the us, whose shares had plunged 20% on monday amid fears it would need to raise extra capital. citigroup, which fell 16% on monday, was also trading higher. based in north carolina, bank of america is trying to head off rumours that it will need to take fresh hits from merrill lynch and the subprime lender countrywide, both of which it acquired during the banking crisis. brian monynhan, the bank of america chief executive, is meeting shareholders tomorrow. cormac leech, banks analyst at canaccord genuity, said the share price movements in uk banks could be explained by concerns that the eurozone could break up, forcing losses on the bailout banks. "the uk banks are actually starting to to discount the risk of a eurozone break up," leech said, even though many analysts believe that politicians will do their utmost to ensure the single currency survives.
history lesson on the ftse don't celebrate too soon. stock market historian david schwartz has been crunching the numbers and reports that an unwelcome milestone was passed this week – a fall of six consecutive days or more adding up to a 7%-plus decline. on the very few occasions this has happened in the past (for example, after military reversals in 1939 and during the stagflation years of the 1970s), a bear market has always followed. "so history is telling us that there is more downside from here," concludes schwartz.
bears, bulls  and smurfs stalk the 'ice age' of the world's stock markets while a relief rally brought seven days successive days of falls to an end, analysts on wall street and in the city are divided over whether the floor has now been found – or whether a slowing world economy will lead to another downward lurch. when the ftse 100 plunged below 4884, it was officially entering bear territory as that level represented a fall of more than 20% from its most recent peak. neil prothero, economist at the economist intelligence unit, said: "with the ftse entering bear market territory, investor anxiety is showing no sign of easing. the sharp correction in equities should come as no surprise and, in our view, marks an inevitable adjustment from the 'fake-recovery' bounce-back seen over recent years to a more realistic level … the major structural imbalances that triggered the financial crisis in 2007-08 have not been corrected. " for arch-bear albert edwards, analyst at société générale, events of the past two weeks – including the downgrade of the united states by standard & poor's – is evidence that stock markets are in the middle of their own "ice age". edwards said: "the simple fact is that the global economy is falling back into recession, or indeed is already in recession. equity markets were sliding before the downgrade and bond yields were reacting as one would have expected to the dire economic data". he tracks movements on the broadly based s&p 500 index on wall street, which he said had dropped through the key support level of 1250 and at lunchtime in new york it was trading at around 1150. another analyst, john higgins of capital economics, says that there have been 14 "official" recessions in the us since and including the great depression of the 1930s. on average, equity prices have fallen 39% from peak to trough around these economic downturns, with the declines ranging from below 7% to more than 86%. "the recent drop in the s&p 500 since is therefore small beer. a peak to trough to decline of 39% from the recent peak of around 1371 on 2 may would leave the index at a little over 830," he said. on the uk stock market, the past fortnight's trading demonstrates that some household name stocks fare better than others. generally during recessions companies that specialise in the basics of life such as energy and household goods tend to do less badly than those linked to consumer spending such as clothing retailers. tesco, unilever and national grid have fallen but they have outperformed the index. banks are being hard hit because of fears that they are exposed to the fallout from an economic downturn and break-up of the eurozone. some experts believe that the downturn could be a moment to consider dipping a toe back into the market. shamik dhar, senior economist at aviva investors, said: "in equity markets, the volatility being experienced can create buying opportunities for active investors committed to the long-term. many companies are in better shape than they were in 2008 and so we should not expect a repeat of the large-scale business contraction that occurred at that time." ian kernohan, economist at royal london asset management, agrees. "in the short-term, the situation is bound to remain volatile, although looking further out, our experience in markets suggest that it is the relative valuations of assets that count in the long run, and we are long-term investors. we note that, in contrast to 2008, money markets remain under no great stress, while strong corporate balance sheets underpin dividends." others also believe that the stock market is now offering better opportunities for investors seeking income because of the prospects of companies paying dividends. in the second quarter, dividend payouts reached £19.1bn in the ftse 100 – the largest level since the second quarter of 2008 – according to capita registrars dividend monitor. dominic rossi, global chief investment officer of equities at fidelity international, reckons this is a reason to be looking at shares. "savers needing income should look at equity markets. since the global financial crisis, many good quality companies have been rebuilding their balance sheets and generating strong cashflow and good profits. even if equity markets are showing volatility in growth, equity funds can provide a good alternative source of income. for the last 20 years, investors have bought equity markets for capital growth, but now is the time to buy equities for income." others are more cautious. donald tosh, senior associate director at private client stockbroker speirs & jeffrey in glasgow, said: "if you believe this is a bear market you should sell into the rallies. the current moves in the ftse show the market is trying to convince everyone we're in a recession."
the us credit downgrade makes the us look like losers. that's the problem "they are blaming the credit downgrade on the tea party movement," shouts florida talkshow host andrea shea king, standing in front of the ever-distinctive tea party express bus. "yeah!!!!" cheers the crowd, possibly in the mistaken belief that "blame" means "credit". or maybe no price is too high to piss off that suspiciously un-white president in the oval office. so let's see what other people recommend:
george osborne cuts short holiday to deal with stock market crisis george osborne is to return from his holiday in california to address mps about the state of the economy on thursday, when parliament is being recalled following the riots across london. osborne is expected to address mps after the prime minister, david cameron, has made a statement about the public unrest that began on saturday. on wednesday the bank is expected to predict in its quarterly inflation report that gdp this year will not rise by as much as the 1.8% it had forecast in may. forecasts for gdp growth have been falling since data showing the economy grew just 0.2% in the second quarter. while economic growth is slowing, the treasury has been insisting that the chancellor's tough austerity measures are working because the uk has retained its aaa credit rating while the us has been stripped of its top notch ranking by standard & poor's. even so, the stock market has been tumbling and last week endured trading patterns last experienced in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008. the triple point fall in the ftse 100 index on monday was the first time in the 27 years of the blue chip index that the market had lost 100 points or more on four consecutive days. in the past two weeks, the ftse 100 has lost nearly 16% of its value. gold is today enjoying its biggest rally since 2008 as investors seek safe havens from the crisis in the eurozone and fears about the strength of the us economy.
uk manufacturing fall adds to market turmoil fears over the uk economy intensified on tuesday, sending the london stock market slumping, after british factory production posted a surprise fall in june and the uk trade gap worsened. alan clarke, chief uk economist at scotia capital, said: "at the start of the year, two areas of the economy were identified as being the likely engines of growth that would propel a continued recovery in the uk economy – manufacturing and net exports. half way through the year, neither appear to be delivering the sort of growth rates that we hoped for." manufacturing output fell by 0.4% in june from the previous month, confounding the city's expectation of a 0.2% increase, and following a rise of 1.8% in may, according to the office for national statistics. car production suffered the biggest fall, of 1.7%, while chemicals, and paper and publishing also shrank in june. ing economist james knightley said: "the worry is that plunging equity markets will hurt business confidence and lead to firms cutting orders thus prompting further falls in output. as a result, the prospect of further action from the bank of england continues to grow." industrial production, which also includes utilities and mining, was flat on the month after north sea oil and gas extraction failed to bounce back from maintenance work in may. this means that industrial output was down 1.6% between april and june, worse than the ons's previous estimate of a 1.4% decline. the fall was the biggest quarterly decline since may 2009, but the ons said its negative impact on gdp would be limited to less than 0.05 percentage points. manufacturing makes up just 13% of britain's economy. the data hit any hopes that the recent meagre 0.2% gdp growth figure for the second quarter could be revised up, noted markit chief economist chris williamson. "it is too early to get a handle on gdp growth for the third quarter, but it is clear that one of the principal drivers of the recovery has been lost." the picture was compounded as the latest trade figures, also released by the ons on tuesday, showed britain's deficit in goods trade with the rest of the world widened from £8.47bn to £8.87bn – the biggest gap since december 2010. in the three months to june, exports fell 1.1%, recording the first decline since july 2009. back in february, exports were growing by 7.4%. phil couchman, uk & ireland head of parcels firm dhl express, which sees 2% of global gdp passing through its network, said the figures were "worrying as the uk's economic recovery relies on exporting, specifically from small to medium-sized businesses". he added: "our recent experience of exporting trends shows an attitude of cautious recovery."
barack obama: 'we have always been and always will be a aaa country' - video source: reuters
we've been warned: the system is ready to blow there were glimmers of hope amid last week's despair. neighbourhoods rallied round in the face of the looting. the muslim community in birmingham showed incredible dignity after three young men were mown down by a car and killed during the riots. it was chastening to see consumerism laid bare. we have seen the future and we know it sucks. all of which is cause for cautious optimism – provided the right lessons are drawn. lesson number one is that the financial and social causes are linked. lesson number two is that what links the city banker and the looter is the lack of restraint, the absence of boundaries to bad behaviour. lesson number three is that we ignore this at our peril. to understand the mess we are in, it's important to know how we got here. today marks the 40th anniversary of richard nixon's announcement that america was suspending the convertibility of the dollar into gold at $35 an ounce. speculative attacks on the dollar had begun in the late 1960s as concerns mounted over america's rising trade deficit and the cost of the vietnam war. other countries were increasingly reluctant to take dollars in payment and demanded gold instead. nixon called time on the bretton woods system of fixed but adjustable exchange rates, under which countries could use capital controls in order to stimulate their economies without fear of a run on their currency. it was also an era in which protectionist measures were used quite liberally: nixon announced on 15 august 1971 that he was imposing a 10% tax on all imports into the us. four decades on, it is hard not to feel nostalgia for the bretton woods system. imperfect though it was, it acted as an anchor for the global economy for more than a quarter of a century, and allowed individual countries to pursue full employment policies. it was a period devoid of systemic financial crises. utter mess there have been big structural changes in the way the global economy has been managed since 1971, none of them especially beneficial. the fixed exchange rate system has been replaced by a hybrid system in which some currencies are pegged and others float. the currencies in the eurozone, for example, are fixed against each other, but the euro floats against the dollar, the pound and the swiss franc. the hong kong dollar is tied to the us dollar, while beijing has operated a system under which the yuan is allowed to appreciate against the greenback but at a rate much slower than economic fundamentals would suggest. the system is an utter mess, particularly since almost every country in the world is now seeking to manipulate its currency downwards in order to make exports cheaper and imports dearer. this is clearly not possible. sir mervyn king noted last week that the solution to the crisis involved china and germany reflating their economies so that debtor nations like the us and britain could export more. progress on that front has been painfully slow, and will remain so while the global currency system remains so dysfunctional. the solution is either a fully floating system under which countries stop manipulating their currencies or an attempt to recreate a new fixed exchange rate system using a basket of world currencies as its anchor. the break-up of the bretton woods system paved the way for the liberalisation of financial markets. this began in the 1970s and picked up speed in the 1980s. exchange controls were lifted and formal restrictions on credit abandoned. policymakers were left with only one blunt instrument to control the availability of credit: interest rates. for a while in the late 1980s, the easy availability of money provided the illusion of wealth but there was a shift from a debt-averse world where financial crises were virtually unknown to a debt-sodden world constantly teetering on the brink of banking armageddon. currency markets lost their anchor in 1971 when the us suspended dollar convertibility. over the years, financial markets have lost their moral anchor, engaging not just in reckless but fraudulent behaviour. according to the us economist james galbraith, increased complexity was the cover for blatant and widespread wrongdoing. looking back at the sub-prime mortgage scandal, in which millions of americans were mis-sold home loans, galbraith says there has been a complete breakdown in trust that is impairing the hopes of economic recovery. "there was a private vocabulary, well-known in the industry, covering these loans and related financial products: liars' loans, ninja loans (the borrowers had no income, no job or assets), neutron loans (loans that would explode, destroying the people but leaving the buildings intact), toxic waste (the residue of the securitisation process). i suggest that this tells you that those who sold these products knew or suspected that their line of work was not 100% honest. think of the restaurant where the staff refers to the food as scum, sludge and sewage." finally, there has been a big change in the way that the spoils of economic success have been divvied up. back when nixon was berating the speculators attacking the dollar peg, there was an implicit social contract under which the individual was guaranteed a job and a decent wage that rose as the economy grew. the fruits of growth were shared with employers, and taxes were recycled into schools, health care and pensions. in return, individuals obeyed the law and encouraged their children to do the same. the assumption was that each generation would have a better life than the last. this implicit social contract has broken down. growth is less rapid than it was 40 years ago, and the gains have disproportionately gone to companies and the very rich. in the uk, the professional middle classes, particularly in the southeast, are doing fine, but below them in the income scale are people who have become more dependent on debt as their real incomes have stagnated. next are the people on minimum wage jobs, which have to be topped up by tax credits so they can make ends meet. at the very bottom of the pile are those who are without work, many of them second and third generation unemployed. deep trouble a crisis that has been four decades in the making will not be solved overnight. it will be difficult to recast the global monetary system to ensure that the next few years see gradual recovery rather than depression. wall street and the city will resist all attempts at clipping their wings. there is strong ideological resistance to the policies that make decent wages in a full employment economy feasible: capital controls, allowing strong trade unions, wage subsidies, and protectionism. but this is a fork in the road. history suggests there is no iron law of progress and there have been periods when things have got worse not better. together, the global imbalances, the manic-depressive behaviour of stock markets, the venality of the financial sector, the growing gulf between rich and poor, the high levels of unemployment, the naked consumerism and the riots are telling us something. this is a system in deep trouble and it is waiting to blow. larry.elliott@theguardian.com theguardian.com/business/economics 
black box trading is the real hazard to markets, says lord myners former city minister lord myners, an investment industry veteran, has redoubled his attack on high-frequency "black box" share trading, which he believes has exacerbated the record levels of volatility in share prices seen over recent weeks. black box trading is a term used when investment strategies are determined by powerful computer algorithms rather than more traditional stock-picking techniques. the capacity of computers to digest large volumes of data in an instant, identifying trends in a market, means that some hedge funds have effectively devolved trading decisions to the black boxes they have created. programming computers to pounce on fleeting trading patterns, rather than analyse underlying companies, makes for a more-volatile market, critics argue. two years ago it was estimated that high-frequency trading accounted for up to 70% of all share transactions in new york. in response to a question from myners last week, the government said a review of computer trading had been established under treasury minister mark hoban last november, though his review committee had only met for the first time last month. its report is not due to be published until the autumn of 2012. myners has in recent years campaigned on a raft of issues all of them broadly calling for shareholders to exert more ownership rights over companies. earlier this year he was appointed uk chairman of cevian capital, europe's largest activist fund manager. as well as formerly chairing guardian media group, the publisher of the guardian, his past roles have included that of chairman at investment group gartmore. he has also been a director of the hedge fund glg partners.
stock market turmoil: ftse's 10 worst days the most recent share crash, in 2008, was triggered by high-profile bank failures in the us after the sub-prime mortgage crisis, and heralded a global economic recession not seen since the 1930s great depression. while the share price falls in august 2011 are alarming, they fail to make it into the top 10 biggest falls, in either percentage or points terms. and it remains unclear whether they are an early warning sign of an economic recession. the ftse 100 was established in 1984 at 1,000 points. it counts 100 of the largest uk companies as its constituents, with a combined market capitalisation of £1549bn.
economic fundamentals mean potential for growth is key run by tough brussels eurocrats, the plans will mend the finances of all concerned while reassuring voters in richer countries their wealth is safe. "a better future" awaits countries forced to accept more austerity. except, as the markets have made clear, fundamentals are working against this plan. looking back on the last two weeks of turmoil it is clear investors fear putting their money into countries with low growth, not those with high debts. without growth, italy and the others have no way of paying off their debts, or even the interest on their debts. under brussels's plan, privatisations, liberalised labour markets and huge welfare cuts will provide a platform for growth. the uk is a model. yet the uk's only salvation has come through a lower exchange rate. without a depressed currency – down by a quarter since the financial crisis hit – our goods, as with italy's and spain's, would be expensive. it is italy's and spain's battle with a high euro that has spurred economists to argue the eurozone cannot carry on in its current form. last year talk centred on greece and other debt-ridden nations leaving the euro. but recently the debate in those countries is more focused on germany quitting, maybe with the netherlands, france and a few others to form their own currency, leaving the weaker ones with a devalued euro. in an instant, they would be more competitive and have a chance of selling their wares on the world market, and so, in short, regain the ability to grow.
oil prices drop as libyan rebels sweep into tripoli as rebel commanders laid claim to 80% of the capital tripoli – and muammar gaddafi's 41-year rule came ever closer to ending – brent crude fell by as much as $3.47 (£2.10), or 3.2%, to $105.15 a barrel before regaining some ground. analysts are divided about how quickly libya can regain its pre-uprising production level, which was around 1.6m barrels a day, or about 2% of global output. much would depend on how badly the fighting had damaged libya's oil infrastructure, they said, and how quickly a stable government with control over the energy industry could be established. at this stage, the answer to neither question was certain. however, analysts agreed that recent production levels of about 50,000 barrels a day (for domestic consumption) would jump fairly quickly and significantly, reducing pressure on oil prices. furthermore, the deteriorating outlook for the global economy – partly as a result of this year's energy price rises – was likely to dent demand for oil, pulling its price down further. caroline bain, of the economist intelligence unit (eiu), said: "oil prices can be expected to fall further if gaddafi is removed from power as the prospect of resumed output from libya will remove some of the political risk premium in the oil price." bain said that while it could take two to three years before output in some of libya's more mature fields is restored, oil production should begin to pick up in a couple of months and reach about 1m barrels a day within a year. the eiu expects oil to hover just about $100 a barrel in the fourth quarter of 2011 and to fall below $100 next year. oil prices have already fallen by about a fifth since they hit $127.02 a barrel in april, their highest level since brent reached $147 in july 2008, as the libyan uprising interrupted supplies. since their springtime peak, prices have fallen as other oil producers stepped up production – to a record of 10m barrels a day in the case of saudi arabia – and the us and parts of europe slipped closer to a double-dip recession bringing reduced demand. however, analysts still believe that oil costs up to $20 a barrel more than it would have without the libyan uprising. eliane tanner, of bank sarasin & cie, predicted that oil could fall as low as $80 in the coming months. as oil declined on monday, gold reached yet another record high, breaching $1,890 an ounce for the first time to trade at $1,894.80 for a period. investors have been scrambling towards gold as they seek for safe havens for their assets at a time when even us treasuries have lost their rock-solid status. platinum hit a three-year high of $1,899.25 an ounce
oil prices drop as libyan rebels sweep into tripoli oil prices dropped sharply on monday while stock markets bounced back from four weeks of heavy losses. the ftse in london fell in early trading, taking the index briefly through 5000, before rebounding, trading more than 100 points higher at 5146 at lunchtime, a 2% gain. european markets also opened lower before staging a recovery, with france's cac up 1.7% and germany's dax edging 0.7% higher. us stock futures indicate the dow jones will open 108 points higher. uk government bonds, known as gilts, tumbled as share prices recovered. "the possibility of a carbon copy of last week looms, with the mayhem of the previous week giving way to an eerie sense of calm," said strategists at nomura. as a battle raged at muammar gaddafi's complex, brent crude dropped $3.47 to $105.15 a barrel, a fall of 3%, and is now trading at $107.35, while us crude fell by a dollar before recovering by the same amount to $87.37 a barrel. caroline bain, an economist at the economist intelligence unit, said: "oil prices can be expected to fall further if gaddafi is removed from power even though it will be some time before libyan oil production resumes. we expect oil production to return to around 1m barrels a day within a year but there will be little additional output in the next couple of months. "it could take two to three years before output in some of libya's more mature fields is restored. however, the prospect of resumed output from libya will remove some of the political risk premium in the oil price. she added: "if political risk is easing, prices can be expected to move lower; the eiu expects oil prices to hover just above $100 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2011 and to fall below us$100 per barrel in 2012." stock markets shrugged off comments from german chancellor angela merkel, who reiterated her opposition to issuing bonds backed by all eurozone countries on sunday. "it will not be possible to solve the current crisis with euro bonds," she told zdf television. she added that "politicians can't and won't simply run after the markets. the markets want to force us to do certain things. that we won't do. politicians have to make sure that we're unassailable, that we can make policy for the people." the german finance minister, wolfgang schäuble, echoed merkel's comments, saying common debt would make it easier for governments to avoid pursuing responsible fiscal policies. asian markets were largely bathed in red, with the nikkei in tokyo losing 1%, but the hang seng in hong kong turned positive in late trading, inching 0.45% higher. there are growing expectations that japan will intervene in currency markets to weaken the strong yen, and the dollar rose slightly against the yen to ¥76.70. earlier, investors scrambling for safe haven investments pushed spot gold prices to a new record of $1,894 an ounce. platinum hit a three-year high at $1,895 an ounce amid global recession fears. citigroup upped its forecast for gold prices on monday, saying investor appetite for gold had increased due to fears of another us recession following the s&p downgrade of the nation's debt, growing inflationary concerns and the eurozone's debt crisis. it sees gold prices averaging $1,650 an ounce next year and $1,500 the year after, compared with previous predictions of $1,325 for 2012 and $1,225 for 2013. citigroup also raised its price target on uk-listed gold miners such as randgold resources – which was the top riser on the ftse on monday – centamin egypt, european goldfields and african barrick gold.
qe3 is not a magic bullet for ben bernanke those who work in financial markets like to think of themselves as awfully clever but there are times when their analysis is strangely unsophisticated. just because bernanke turned up at jackson hole last year to announce qe2 – the second round of quantitative easing – does not mean he is going to repeat the performance this week. there are a number of reasons why this is the case. last year, the fed had already endorsed bernanke's jackson hole remarks about qe. this year it is clear that no such prior approval has been given, or sought. with a presidential election little more than a year away, the fed knows that the debate about qe has become highly politically charged. sceptics do not see it as the light sabre with which bernanke fends off a second great depression. for them, qe is throwing good money after bad: less star wars than the money pit 3. bernanke justified qe2 not by the need to boost us growth but as necessary to prevent the world's biggest economy from slipping towards deflation. last year there was some evidence that deflation was a risk; in the three months to july 2010, core inflation was falling at an annual rate of 0.2%. in the same three months of 2011, the annualised rate of core inflation is 3.1%. qe is also designed to bring down long-term borrowing costs. the mechanism is as follows. by buying bonds, the central bank reduces their supply and hence pushes up their price. bond prices move in the opposite direction to their yields, so dearer bonds means lower yields. lower yields on treasury bonds means the us government can borrow more cheaply. but it also means individuals and companies can borrow more cheaply as well. so qe helps the economy by leading to lower long-term interest rates. but bond yields in the us (and in the uk too, for that matter) are already at historic lows, primarily because the markets fear a double-dip recession. it is far from obvious that another dose of qe would bring long-term interest rates down much lower than they already are. on the other side of the ledger, the experience of the past two and a half years suggests that qe has costs as well as benefits. the main drawback is that the boost to the money supply does not appear to do much for domestic production but has heldholds back the economy's recovery by causing higher inflation. the unintended consequence of qe was that commercial banks and hedge funds had more money with which to speculate. since the intention in creating new electronic money was clearly to drive down the value of the dollar, much of this pile of casino chips found its way into the commodities market. china's rapid growth meant demand for industrial metals, oil and food was already strong: qe gave prices an additional upward twist. in countries like the us and the uk, where wage increases have been extremely modest, higher inflation resulted in falling real disposable incomes. consumers, already worried about being made unemployed and keen to reduce their indebtedness, have cut back on their spending. the fed will wait before embarking on a further bout of qe, and that may be no bad thing. action now would look like a panic response to the events of the past month, engendering the suspicion that the fed has been forced into emergency action because it knows something that nobody else does what's more, one of the few bright spots amid the market turmoil has been the drop in the price of oil. cheaper fuel prices should start to feed through into lower inflation over the coming months, boosting real incomes and hence providing a bulwark against a double-dip recession. this would be put into jeopardy were qe3 to unleash a fresh wave of speculation in the commodity markets. it would be a good idea for central banks to keep a few shots in what is starting to look like an awfully empty locker. bernanke has said that the fed currently sees no reason why short-term interest rates should be raised for the next two years, but he has no room to cut them further. similarly, deficit reduction will start to bite in the us next year as tax breaks are withdrawn and spending is cut. the case for qe3 will look stronger in six months' time if the economy remains weak and inflation is coming down. there is one school of thought which argues that the best course of action for policymakers would be to do nothing. given time, low interest rates and the boost to the money supply will lead to recovery: all that is required is patience. this advice is unlikely to be heeded if activity weakens over the coming months. in those circumstances, careful thought should be given to the best way of boosting output, since it is by no means obvious that qe in its current form is the best solution. one suggestion, floated by gerard lyons, the chief economist of standard chartered, would be for countries like britain and the us to take advantage of ultra-low bond yields by borrowing at low interest rates for long-term infrastructure projects. another possibility would be for the money created to be used to finance national regeneration banks. in the uk, an alternative use would be to pay off the long-term financial burden incurred by projects built under the private finance initiative. if qe is deemed to be necessary, some recalibration is called for. thus far, it has operated as a welfare system for finance. the benefits have been enjoyed on wall street; the tab has been picked up on main street.
nervous investors go for gold as panic grips stock markets fresh turmoil on the world's financial markets on friday saw gold rise to record levels, the dollar sink to its lowest-ever level against the japanese yen, and share prices gyrate wildly in europe and north america. a day of rumours and extreme nervousness saw shares in britain's biggest companies lose all the gains in the market seen since the ftse 100 index bottomed out on 11 august. despite an afternoon rally, prompted by speculation that the us federal reserve was about to hold an emergency meeting to tackle the growing sense of market panic, the ftse closed 51.47 points down at 5040.76, a decline of 1%. the dow jones industrial average also lost confidence later in the day as no announcement from the fed was forthcoming and closed down 172.93 at 10,817.65, a fall of 1.6%. earlier, london shares had collapsed after thursday's heavy selling on wall street prompted steep falls on asian bourses. fears that the global economy was heading for a double-dip recession, and signs that europe's bailout of greece could collapse, saw the ftse lose more than 3% of its value at one stage, sending it well below the 5000 mark. the steadier start to trading on wall street helped calm nerves in the city at the end of another frenetic week that saw markets once again focus on their two major concerns: growth and the fragility of europe's single currency. "this week has seen a continuation of the trend of weaker than expected data and political reaction to the european problems which pretty much amounts to 'let's have a get-together a couple of times a year'," said gary jenkins, an analyst at evolution securities. the jittery atmosphere sent investors heading once again to the safe havens of the swiss franc, the japanese yen and gold. bullion rose as high as $1,881 an ounce, with some dealers expecting it to test the $2,000 an ounce level over the coming weeks. on the foreign exchanges, the dollar dropped to just under ¥76 against the japanese currency and was also down against the swiss franc and the pound. the dollar's fall helped underpin oil prices, with a barrel of brent crude trading almost $2 higher at just under $109 a barrel. switzerland's two biggest banks, ubs and credit suisse, have denied that they made use of the federal reserve's swap facility via the swiss national bank, insisting they have no liquidity problems. there had been speculation that a swiss bank had accessed the us liquidity facility via a $200m repurchase transaction with the snb last week. evangelos venizelos, greece's finance minister, said his country's €109bn bail-out was not in doubt, despite the fissures within europe being laid bare by the demands of five countries for collateral in exchange for paying into a rescue fund for the weaker countries in the monetary union. venizelos also said the recession in his financially troubled country could be deeper than originally predicted for this year, with output potentially shrinking by more than 4.5%. his comments came a day after the netherlands, slovenia, austria and slovakia said on thursday they wanted hundreds of millions of euros in collateral, in the same vein as finland, which struck a deal with the greek government earlier in the week to receive cash as security for its part of the bailout. brussels sought to ease fears by stressing that olli rehn, europe's economic and monetary affairs commissioner, was looking at a plan for common european bonds, seen as a step towards closer financial integration among the 17 single-currency nations. european banking shares fell to near two-and-a-half-year lows, dragged down by rumours about banks' potential losses on bonds issued by heavily indebted governments. earlier, asian shares took a beating, with japan's nikkei 225 index dropping 2.5% to 8719.24 and hong kong's hang seng down 3.1% to 19,399.92. concerns that weak growth in europe and the us would hit china's exports affected sentiment in shanghai, where the stock market's composite index ended 1% lower at 2534.6 after dipping almost 2% earlier in the day. some strategists said it was a good time to pick up stocks cheaply. nick bubb, retail analyst at arden partners, said: "if you want to buy when there's blood on the streets, and on the screens, then today is a good day to pick up good quality, high-yielding general retail defensives like marks & spencer and wh smith, as well as undervalued global retailers like inchcape and kingfisher. and in the food retailers, we wouldn't want to be short of wm morrison, ahead of its interims on 8 september." investors continued to swap risky investments for those viewed as safe. the yield on the benchmark 10-year us treasury bill rose, but only slightly, to 2.10%, after hitting a record low of just below 2% on thursday. bond yields fall as their prices rise in line with demand.
small investors bound to shun markets, admits fund manager jupiter   britain's army of retail investors, many of whom have suffered heavy paper losses in recent weeks, are expected to react with caution in the short term and avoid the volatile stock market, according to jupiter fund management, one of the uk's largest retail fund groups. chief executive edward bonham carter said: "if you look at previous big downdraughts in bear markets – 2000, 2003 or the credit crunch – the pattern that we notice is that new money flows definitely slow down, as you'd expect. "people buy more low-risk products such as absolute return funds or bond products… people – not surprisingly when things are volatile – do hang back." he was speaking after jupiter confirmed it will pay its first interim dividend, despite the stock market turmoil. bonham carter said the measure was "a mark of confidence in the business"; he pointed to low levels of debt at jupiter. "in these uncertain and difficult-to-predict times, we've got a robust balance sheet." jupiter floated in june last year, raising more than £220m to repay borrowings – including shareholder-owned debt. shares made their debut at 165p and rose above 300p this year, making it one of the most successful flotations in 2010. in late june, a handful of senior executives and fund managers sold large stakes in jupiter, immediately after a so-called "lock-in" deal – an agreement barring such share sales for a period following flotation – came to an end. star managers philip gibbs and anthony nutt cashed in shares worth £12.7m and £18m respectively. since then, amid wider market turmoil, jupiter shares have fallen from 240p to 190p, making their selloff look judicious. gibbs has a strong record as one of the top stock pickers in the financial sector and at the start of this month reportedly sold down a large amount of his fund's holding in banks, moving instead into cash. in an update to investors in jupiter's financial opportunities fund, he said: "we are cautious about undercapitalised banks in [europe], including the uk, preferring businesses in relatively safe-haven economies of switzerland, sweden, germany and norway." on friday, bonham carter added: "the way we see it, standing back from the recent kerfuffle, we think we're dealing with the debt accumulation of the early 1980s to 2000. that's at consumer level and more latterly at government level. "that's the background in which this particular chapter [is playing out]… you've got the euro [straining] because of inherent flaws in its design ... and in the states, of course, the continuing rumblings are about the debt and the budget. "so those chickens are coming home to roost. [the situation is] exacerbated by … people saying: 'growth is going to slow', and 'are we going to double dip or not?'. and the august flavour on top is that we don't think we've got any confidence in leaders to sort it out this time. each little wobble has its own characteristics." jupiter reported half-year pre-tax profit of £37.3m, up from £14.6m last year. sales rose from £131.1m to £151m.
global markets take fright at the return of the zombie banks that something can be divided into three parts. the first cause for anxiety is the global economy, and in particular the united states. the report released on thursday by the philadelphia federal reserve covers only a small part of the eastern us but it has a good track record for charting the ups and downs of the world's biggest economy. the philly fed's barometer has just plunged deep into recession territory. there are also simultaneous slowdowns going on in the rest of the world. europe's economy has slowed to stall speed, the uk is still operating way below its pre-recession level and activity has come off the boil in china, even though to western eyes growth still looks amazingly strong in china. two and a half years ago, financial markets rallied strongly on the assumption that the worst of the slump was over. there was relief that great depression 2 had been avoided. now the talk is over a double-dip recession. concern number one has re-ignited fears about the health of the global financial system. again, markets have been operating for the past couple of years on the assumption that large dollops of financial help from the taxpayer and a return to growth have made the global banking system immune from a fresh collapse. this always looked questionable, and now that activity is slowing markets suspect that some banks may go under. in the 1990s, the japanese government prevented its financial system from collapse but only at the expense of creating zombie banks, neither alive nor dead but kept functioning thanks to the largesse of the state. the reason the sell-off in financial stocks has been more pronounced than the fall in stock markets as a whole is that investors believe europe and north america now have their own zombie banks. at least then, though, governments were in a position to ride to the rescue. today, governments are seen not as the solution but as part of the problem. the debt burden accumulated by the banks was, in effect, nationalised during the crisis. it was hoped this would prove temporary, but the persistence of weak growth means that a private debt crisis has now become a sovereign debt crisis. what's more, the markets sense that policymakers have run out of bullets to fire. they can't cut official interest rates, they find it hard to justify more quantitative easing when inflation is at current levels and almost every western government is currently trying to cut its budget deficit. put all that together and you get the full japanese package: weak growth, weak banks, weak policy response. that is not a good recipe for shares. today tokyo's nikkei market is at less than 25% of its level at the peak of the stock market boom in the late 1980s.
markets in meltdown amid new global recession fears financial markets on both sides of the atlantic were convulsed by a fresh wave of selling amid fears that the world economy is sliding back towards recession. a closely watched gauge of the us manufacturing sector produced by the philadelphia federal reserve plunged, underlining fears that the recovery has ground to a halt. the yield on benchmark 10-year us treasury bonds, which measures the cost of borrowing for the american government, slipped below 2%, as investors sought a haven from the storm. gold, which has soared in value this year, hit another new record of $1,825 (£1,106) an ounce. sal catrini, managing director for equities at cantor fitzgerald in new york, said: "the market is in meltdown mode; the data continues to stink. i don't know that there's much more to be said." in europe, investors were spooked by news that at least five eurozone countries had asked the greek government to put up collateral against their share of the latest emergency bailout for athens. austria, the netherlands, slovenia and slovakia joined finland in insisting that the greeks put up assets as security, before they sign off on the €109bn (£95bn) emergency loan agreed in july. their demands underline fears that eurozone countries have little confidence in the latest plans to shore up the single currency. "it does suggest that northern european states have a certain lack of faith in greece," said simon derrick, of the bank bny mellon. it was reported that the european central bank has made an emergency short-term loan of $500m to one struggling financial firm; while a story in the wall street journal suggested that european banks with us operations had been hauled in by the new york federal reserve and asked whether they had enough capital to survive the market chaos. in the uk, shares in royal bank of scotland and barclays were down by 11%, and lloyds by 9%. the turmoil came as andy haldane, the bank of england's executive director for financial stability, warned that the fears in financial markets have been exacerbated by the "psychological scarring" from the traumatic events of the past two years. "memories of financial disaster are now fresh, as after the great depression, causing an over-estimation of the probability of a repeat disaster," he said, in a paper published by the bank. he called for "a more optimistic popular narrative" to help counter this ingrained pessimism. despite the us federal reserve chairman ben bernanke's pledge to keep interest rates at rock bottom until 2013, investors are increasingly nervous that central banks have run out of ammunition to rescue the ailing world economy. "every time the economy got the sniffles, we had the federal reserve standing by with tissues," said jack ablin, chief investment officer at harris private bank. "this time around, i think the box is empty, and we're going to have to go through this alone."
global recession warning rattles stock markets global stock markets have resumed their recent slide, weighed down by fears that the world is sliding into a double-dip recession. the ftse index in london dropped more than 200 points to 5123, a decline of 3.9%. all 100 stocks on the index were down on thursday afternoon, with banking and mining stocks among the biggest fallers, led by barclays, lloyds banking group and royal bank of scotland. on wall street, the dow jones plunged more than 330 points to 11076, a 2.9% drop. germany's dax and france's cac lost 4.7% and 3.9% respectively. in asia, japan's nikkei closed down 1.25% while hong kong's hang seng tumbled 1.2% and the shanghai composite ended the day 1.6% lower. gold hit a fresh record high of $1,820.89 an ounce. expectations that the world economy will need less oil pushed brent crude below $109 a barrel, after reaching a two-week high on wednesday. the swiss franc tumbled against the euro and the dollar amid talk that the swiss national bank was injecting liquidity to put an end to the currency's recent surge to record highs. morgan stanley warned that the global economy was teetering on the brink of a recession, and slashed its growth forecasts. citing "recent policy errors" and the prospect of further austerity measures in 2012, it said the us and the eurozone were "hovering dangerously close to a recession over the next 6-12 months". "while we had been calling for a 'bbb' recovery in developed markets all along, the path now looks even more bumpy, below-par and brittle than previously thought," analysts joachim fels and manoj pradhan said in a note, adding that emerging markets were not immune either. the us investment bank cut its global growth forecast to 3.9% from 4.2% this year, and to 3.8% from 4.5% next year. growth in developed market economies is now seen averaging at just 1.5% this year and next (down from previous estimates of 1.9% and 2.4%). a recession is defined as two or more consecutive quarters of contraction. "still, recession is not our base case because: the corporate sector looks healthy; household real incomes will be supported by lower headline inflation; and we expect more action from the fed and the ecb, including rate cuts and more non-standard easing," the morgan stanley analysts said. gary jenkins, head of fixed income at evolution securities, said: "the european sovereign debt crisis is likely to remain a feature of markets for some time, but if we see a sharp slowdown in economic activity it could threaten fiscal consolidation in core countries such as france and exacerbate the crisis." jenkins noted that one bank borrowed $500m (£300m) for a week from the european central bank on wednesday. "it is the first time a euro area bank has borrowed dollars from the ecb since february. while one shouldn't read too much into one transaction it could be another indication of tension in money markets."
european markets hit by eurozone robin hood tax plans fears of a europe-wide financial transactions tax sent tremors through the city and other european bourses after angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy backed the idea of a new levy. shares in banks and other financial institutions were hardest hit in downbeat london trading amid concerns that the tax would add to the cost of doing business and drive firms overseas. the franco-german plan was strongly supported by campaigners for a so-called robin hood tax, but strongly opposed by the cbi. in a study released on thursday, the adam smith institute said any attempt to introduce such a tax into britain would be "economic suicide". pointing to sweden, where a tax of 0.5% was placed on the purchase of equity securities and stock options in 1984, the institute said that 60% of the 11 most actively traded swedish shares migrated to london and more than 50% of swedish equities had moved to london by 1990. the tax was subsequently dropped. sam bowman, head of research at the institute, described the proposed tax as vague and economically illiterate. the robin hood tax campaign, which supports the use of the levy in britain, has argued the financial sector should "pay their fair share to clear up the mess they helped create". it believes that a small tax could generate £20bn annually in britain without having a negative impact on the prosperity of the financial sector. max lawson, the campaign's spokesman, said: "this is a major step forward which leaves the uk increasingly isolated in insisting that a financial transaction tax must be global to work. rather than standing on the sidelines, david cameron should join sarkozy and merkel to make banks pay their fair share." "europe now has an historic opportunity to make the financial sector work in our interests and help millions of people here and in poor countries who have been hurt by a crisis they did nothing to cause." in the city, the prospect of tax rate harmonisation and a new financial transaction tax pledged at the franco-german summit did not ease fears about the stability of the region. the ftse 100 closed 26 points lower to reach 5331.6, having dropped almost 80 points in early trading. germany's deutsche börse and pan-european exchange nyse euronext also fell. the three exchanges would all be affected if traders were forced to pay a small fee every time they bought and sold stocks or currencies. "one of the intended purposes of the financial transactions tax would be reduce trading volumes. this would be negative for businesses which thrive on the flow of financial transactions," stockbroker collins stewart said in a note. neil bentley, the cbi's deputy director general, said: "to consider the introduction of a financial transaction tax at a time when we should be totally focused on promoting growth is a mistake. such a tax could have the opposite effect, increasing the cost of capital for businesses and holding back their growth potential. "this tax would divert transactions to other jurisdictions, like new york and hong kong, damaging the uk's long-term competitiveness, and it is unlikely to raise significant revenues."
'chinese youtube's' shares fall in disappointing debut the chinese video sharing website tudou saw its shares fall on its wall street debut as it became the first company to go public since last week's market turmoil. the disappointing debut comes as investor appetite for new public listings in general wanes in tumultuous trading conditions. but it also comes after investors raised concerns about accounting measures at recently us-listed chinese firms. however, tudou's bigger rival, the chinese video website youku, was one of the top gainers on wall street on wednesday as its stock rose 12%. shares in youku, which went public in december 2010, swapped hands at almost $27 apiece in early afternoon trading on the new york stock exchange. tudou has doubled its number of registered users in the past two years, to 90 million at the end of june. however, the six-year-old company's losses have widened. its net loss in the three months to 31 march was $52m on revenues of $12.1m. credit suisse, deutsche bank securities and oppenheimer & co were the underwriters on the tudou ipo.
'chinese youtube' to make nasdaq debut the chinese video sharing website tudou plans to raise $174m (£105m) at a valuation of $3.2bn when it becomes the latest internet company to make its wall street debut on wednesday. similar to youtube, tudou shows user-generated videos as well as licensed and in-house content. tudou's bigger rival, youko, raised $203m when it floated on the new york stock exchange in december. shares in youko rocketed more than 100% on its debut, to $42.70 apiece, but have since fallen back to $23.92. similarly, the chinese social networking site renren has seen its stock fall 6.5% since going public in may. stephanie chang, an analyst at us-based ipo research firm renaissance capital, said: "its competitor was successful on the first day but the environment has become more hostile, especially for chinese companies, but [also] for all ipos recently. it's a very positive sign the deal was completed." tudou, which is based in shanghai, has doubled its number of registered users in the past two years, to 90 million at the end of june. however, the six-year-old company's losses have widened. its net loss in the three months to 31 march was $52m on revenues of $12.1m. credit suisse, deutsche bank securities and oppenheimer & co were the underwriters on the tudou ipo.
glazers pin manchester united's hopes on eastern promise the first assumption seems safe. the singaporean financial authorities will probably regard the arrival of the most famous name in english football as a coup and they'll milk the event for favourable publicity. the glazers, if they decide to run half way around the world to sell a slice of united, may succeed in gaining in a few extra dollars on the float price. but there could be a long-term cost to diluting the club's ties at home – football clubs are not meant to be footloose, as supporters everywhere know.
manchester united would join a host of luxury brands on asian stock exchanges manchester united would become the latest, and perhaps best known, international brand to list on an asian exchange. just as most of the world's biggest mining companies are listed in london, and the biggest technology companies choose wall street, so international consumer brands are increasingly looking east. hong kong has become the listing vehicle of choice for luxury international consumer brands such as prada and cosmetics group l'occitane. under the glazers' ownership, manchester united have forged ahead of their rivals in growing global revenues. the club has been looking for new offices in the region to capitalise on its estimated supporter base of 190 million and boost its commercial operations. manchester united's segmented sponsorship approach is a model that other clubs are now trying to copy, doing regional deals in a range of categories. "the multitude of local events we run with global and local partners, and a prospective tour of asia in 2012, necessitate expanding our footprint both with people and office space," united said recently . "this is consistent with the huge appeal of manchester united in the region, born out of nearly 40 years of visiting."
manchester united eyes a partial flotation on singapore stock exchange the glazer family, whose ownership of manchester united has brought unprecedented success on the field and loud protests off it, are examining proposals to raise $1bn (£600m) by floating a substantial stake on the singapore stock exchange. any ipo could raise up to $1bn, reports in asia suggested, which would be an ambitious valuation if the glazers were to stick to plans to float a stake of between 25% and 30%. the family are believed to value the club at more than £2bn. the premier league champions carry about £500m in bond debt, acquired in 2010 when the glazers launched a bond issue to pay off existing loans taken out to facilitate the leveraged buyout. the bond issue sparked protests from some supporters because it laid bare the extent to which the glazers had funded the interest payments from the club's cashflow and built in the ability to draw dividends in future. but david gill, the club's chief executive, has insisted that it can easily absorb the £45m-a-year interest payments attached to the bond while competing on the pitch with european rivals. trophies and a more active position in the transfer market have helped to quell fans' anger, though protest groups remain active. last year the glazers paid off the £225m high-interest, payment-in-kind hedge fund loans they took out in an earlier refinancing round, which did not sit on the club's balance sheet but were housed by their parent company and accrued interest at 16.25% a year. they have never revealed where they found the money to do so. if they borrowed it, they could use the proceeds of an ipo to repay that loan. the glazers could also pay down some of the bond debt, plough some proceeds back into the club or take cash out for use elsewhere in their business empire. it emerged this year that wall street financiers were talking to the glazers, who also own the tampa bay buccaneers and a string of shopping centres in the us, about a possible ipo in hong kong. however, attention has switched to the singapore exchange, which has been competing with hong kong for international listings and would see the manchester united name as a major coup. it is not thought likely that the "red knights", a group of wealthy supporters angry about the glazers' business model, would be interested in a minority stake. they withdrew from the fray despite preparing a £1bn takeover bid, insisting that the glazers were overvaluing the club. "it shows a total lack of vision. the people who should be offered the chance to buy a stake in the club are the fans. it shows a total lack of imagination not to even consider engaging with them." the glazers have continued to insist the club is not for sale, despite rumours about the interest of the qatari sovereign wealth fund, which denied claims it had tabled a £1.5bn offer before going on to buy the french club paris st germain. the london-based commercial arm launched by the glazers, headed by chief of staff edward woodward, has succeeded in substantially growing overseas sponsorship revenues. it is targeting another steep rise in shirt sponsorship income, worth £20m a season from aon, when the current deal expires in 2014. yet manchester united last year racked up a record annual pre-tax loss of £109m, though much of that was attributable to one-off costs associated with the £500m bond issue. its most recent quarterly results showed that while matchday and media income had remained largely flat, annnual commercial income was on course to top £100m for the first time. since the glazers bought the club, annual turnover has doubled to £300m. the results, for the nine months to 31 march 2011, showed that the club had £113m in the bank. that was on course to swell to more than £170m after season ticket income had been banked, notwithstanding more than £50m spent on summer transfers. a manchester united spokesman said: "we don't comment on speculation." a credit suisse spokeswoman also declined to comment. the club's results are due in october, when it will be expected to clarify its future plans to bondholders.
inflation: what the experts say this is really the calm before the storm: we're likely to see inflation rise significantly over the next couple of months as the large energy price hikes begin to kick in. four of the big six suppliers have already announced big price hikes with the other two likely to follow, so the cpi rate will probably top 5% by september. the big picture remains one of weak underlying pressures, with inflation being kept high by a series of temporary factors – the vat rise, rising fuel prices and higher energy costs – which will remain in place for the remainder of this year and then fade away. rises in energy prices and, in particular, the vat hike at the start of the year are still keeping inflation high. at constant tax rates, cpi inflation was 2.8% year-on-year in july. underlying inflationary pressures are subdued, and there is still no sign of a wage-price spiral, which would force the monetary policy committee's (mpc) hand. a further increase in the annual rate of inflation is likely next month – possibly to 5% – given the 15%-plus hikes in utility bills and pipeline pressures from agricultural commodity prices. it takes around nine months for raw agricultural food price changes to be reflected in the shops. despite the high likelihood of a 5%+ inflation rate in the next couple of months, the bank of england will not be responding given the weakness in the economy and nervousness in financial markets. moreover, inflation will plunge next year as the vat hike drops out of the annual comparison, the weakness in economic activity further erodes corporate pricing power, and sharp falls in agricultural and energy commodity prices eventually feed through. the slight acceleration in inflation makes no palpable change to when the mpc will implement a rate rise, with an increase still not expected until late 2012. current inflation seems to concern only the most hawkish mpc members, with the markets more worried about the lacklustre growth in the uk economy. sterling showed strength, gaining slightly against the dollar and the euro on the back of today's figures, as the uk's resurgent place as a safe haven continues.
markets make calmer start to the week calm returned to financial markets on monday following last week's turbulence, as traders awaited fresh developments in the european debt crisis. most major stock markets posted early gains, and the only major swing on the foreign exchange was a sharp fall in the swiss franc. gold lost ground, falling back from its recent highs. "a calmer tone has settled over the markets after last week's turmoil," said jane foley, senior currency strategist at rabobank. there was widespread encouragement that the japanese economy shrank by 0.3% between april and june, a smaller contraction than feared. in japan, the nikkei index closed 1.37% higher, with other stock markets in the region also registering solid gains. foley said the japanese gdp data, and encouraging us retail sales data released last friday, had prompted "a collective sigh of relief across the global investment community". the talks, taking place in paris, will consider how the two biggest eurozone economies can prevent the region's debt crisis escalating further. failure to agree clear plans could prompt another sell-off in the financial markets, traders believe. "if nothing is agreed tomorrow then we could see another market wobble," said michael hewson, analyst at cmc markets. "i'm afraid we'll see more delays and more prevarication … and the markets are losing patience." one option to resolve the euro crisis would be for weaker countries to issue "eurobonds", backed by the rest of the community. france and germany, though, have indicated that eurobonds are not on the agenda this week. hewson warned that the financial markets are currently "in the eye of the storm", suggesting that monday's placid scenes may be short-lived. "many traders will doubtless welcome a quiet start to the week after the extreme volatility that has been seen of late," said cameron peacock, analyst at ig markets. peacock pointed out that the markets could be moved by us manufacturing data due for release later on monday. at 2.30pm bst, the european central bank will reveal how much it spent in the last week buying up the sovereign debt of italy and spain. akif ince, credit data analyst at markit, reported that the cost of insuring corporate and government debt had declined on monday – a sign of "positive sentiment" in the market. "while we seem to be retracing for the time being, there are many moving parts and an air of uncertainty is lingering in the market as ideas of eurobonds and naked sovereign cds [credit default swap] bans re-emerge," ince added. the swiss franc fell by 2% against other currencies, following reports that the swiss central bank was planning to peg the currency against the euro. the swiss franc has soared in recent months as investors sought a safe haven. gold, the other classic refuge, dropped around 0.5% to $1,740 an ounce.
stock lenders and sort-sellers carry on as usual research into the practice of stock lending shows some investment firms are retaining up to 40% of the fees they earn for lending some, or possibly all, of the shares in particular funds. when many other avenues for making money have dried up, the substantial fees that can be generated by stock lending are just too good to ignore. short-sellers need to borrow shares from funds to make their contracts work. in recent weeks they have been particularly active, as the stock market has headed south. last month was the worst month for the ftse 100 since the greek crisis in may last year and short-sellers will have made big gains. challenging the fee structures set by stock lenders is simply not in the interests of short-sellers. the rewards of success dwarf the fees. and that is the challenge when tackling the city. everyone inside the citadel believes fees and commissions drive innovation, the entrepreneurial spirit and client satisfaction. regulators do little to challenge this nonsense, apart from periodic short- selling bans. the city watchdog has prevented independent financial advisers, most of whom operate on the high street, from selling commission-based products. but inside the square mile and canary wharf, investment firms, whose clients are equally anonymous city operators, continue. pension funds spend billions of pounds every year paying fund managers who churn their shareholdings. research that shows the pension funds emerge worse off is ignored and the process continues. we know two-thirds of active fund managers underperform the index. their failure is exacerbated by paying huge stockbroking fees. every cost is passed on to the ultimate client – ordinary investors. a saver who started investing 20 years ago in a personal pension is lucky to emerge with more than their contributions. much of the share price gains are stolen in fees and charges that few understand. all these city practices should be torched by the regulator. instead it presents a menu of consumer choice with a side order of financial education, which survey after survey shows has done little to raise consumer understanding. most politicians are in the same boat. they have no idea how their constituents are being fleeced. stock lending and short-selling are symptomatic of a more general malaise where city practitioners exploit investor fear and greed, largely for their own ends.
fsa fines swift trade £8m for market abuse of 'layering' a business controlled by canadian share trader peter beck is to be fined £8m by the financial services authority. the regulator found that swift trade stood at the centre of a global web of equity traders engaged in an elaborate market abuse operation. the fsa confirmed that it had decided to fine swift trade, a now dissolved online brokerage catering for day traders, for "systematically and deliberately" manipulating the share price of listed companies, including ftse 350 firms, for short moments of time throughout 2007. the fsa said profits from the manipulations were in excess of £1.75m, though it had not been possible to reach an exact figure. swift trade, which has transferred assets to a parent company and was dissolved last december, is appealing against the fine. since may it has fought to keep the regulator's ruling confidential – a battle that it has now lost. should the fine be upheld on appeal, the fsa is expected to then pursue a claim for the money on swift trade's parent group. it is only the second time the regulator has sought to make public its decision before the appeal process has been exhausted. the market abuse involved a trading scam known as "layering". this involves traders entering relatively large orders to buy or to sell shares with the london stock exchange without ever intending to follow through on those orders. this gives a false impression of demand for a stock, prompting a move in the price – upwards in the case of an apparent abundance of big buyers; downwards when there appear to be lots of heavy sellers. the bluff orders were deleted within seconds, but not before a small shift in price had allowed swift trade to strike, buying or selling equity derivatives at prices that would not otherwise have been possible. suspicious trading patterns were eventually picked up by the lse and passed on to the fsa for investigation. however, swift trade had been able to repeat this type of market abuse operation for so long, in part, because it is said to have had a network of more than 50 customers around the world which in turn engaged more than 3,000 traders. simon morris, of law firm cms cameron mckenna, said: "fining a fringe player an enormous amount for market abuse is sending out another powerful message that sleazy malpractices are not tolerated in the city."
wall street stocks drop after figures show fall in us consumer confidence shares in wall street plunged on tuesday afternoon after figures showed that us consumer confidence had fallen to a two-year low. the conference board consumer research centre said that its confidence index plummeted to 44.5, down from a revised 59.2 in july. the number was the lowest level since april 2009 when the reading was 40.8. it is far below the 53.3 that analysts had expected. a reading above 90 indicates the economy is on solid footing; above 100 signals strong growth. traders took the news to mean that the us is still perilously close to slipping back into recession. "august's weak european business and consumer survey adds to the evidence that the eurozone economy is now stagnating at best," said jennifer mckeown, senior economist at capital economics. banking stocks led the way in london, with royal bank of scotland, lloyds banking group and barclays up 12%, 8% and 8.4% respectively. the blue-chip index hit a high 5283 in early trading then fell back slightly, closing 138 points up at 5268, a 2.7% rise. "despite the initial disappointment of no qe3 announcement at jackson hole last week, markets took encouragement from bernanke's announcement that he would extend next month's federal open market committee meeting to two days to fully explore and discuss any range of options for, and against, further stimulus," said cmc analyst michael hewson. "it seems that markets have taken this to mean that we could well see further stimulus, despite the significant barriers against it, both political and fiscal." news that greek banks alpha and efg eurobank were merging had helped european markets to recover early on. news of the greek bank deal prompted the greek equity market to rise 14%, its largest one-day rise in more than 20 years. the deal creates greece's biggest bank, and was sealed with help from qatar. greek bank stocks shot up 29% in the wake of the announcement, prompting a rally in financial stocks around the world. us consumer spending meanwhile rose at its fastest pace in five months in july, with strong demand for cars in particular.
we have nothing to fear except fear itself…  and nothing to be sure of except uncertainty but the collective panic attack that began sweeping through global exchanges in july is far from over. nick bloom of stanford university in california calls these periodic market convulsions "uncertainty shocks". he's studied 16 of them – from the cuban missile crisis, when the us and russia were locked in nuclear standoff, to the near-collapse of the hedge fund long-term capital management in 1998, when a couple of nobel prize winners with a whizzy computer model almost brought the world financial system down around their ears. bloom tracks uncertainty using the vix, an index of the volatility of us share prices. his analysis shows that uncertainty shocks are anything but short and sharp. in fact, they tend to have a half-life of just under two months – in other words, it takes about eight weeks for the panic to subside to half its peak level. on that basis, bloom reckons we may have another six weeks or so to go. by that time, the outbreak of fear will have done its work. as fdr didn't quite say, one of the things we have to fear is fear itself. each of these episodes of financial frenzy has presaged an economic downturn. it's hard to separate cause and effect: part of the reason investors are in a tizzy is because it's become clear that the recovery in the world economy is tailing off. but once the markets start to panic, it can create a debilitating feedback loop. falling share prices reflect firms' fears about the downturn, but they also amplify them by reflecting everyone's anxieties back on themselves. that in itself makes a synchronised downturn all the more likely. we saw this effect most clearly in the aftermath of the lehman brothers bankruptcy. the metaphor most often used was of "falling off a cliff". bloom believes the current bout of market chaos foreshadows a recession towards the end of this year, with world gdp contracting by about 1%. "firms do not hire new employees, or invest in new equipment, if they are uncertain about future demand," he says. "consumers do not buy a new car, a new tv, or refurnish their house if they are uncertain about their next paycheck. the economy grinds to a halt while everyone waits." that's what happened in late 2008 and early 2009, and it's exactly what's happening now. surveys from industry across europe will be published this week, and it's likely they'll reveal a sharp deterioration in confidence across the board. maybe it's the california sunshine, but, despite his prediction that we're headed for a double dip, bloom remains an optimist. he believes that the jolt of the past few weeks will have been enough to shock eurozone politicians into getting their act together, and us lawmakers into tackling taboo issues such as the long-term costs of their healthcare system. there are two problems with that view, however. the first is that even if politicians can cobble together a response to these longer-term challenges, they also need to act urgently to prevent a new credit crunch, as europe's banks struggle with the dodgy debts of the boom. even if financial apocalypse is averted, the second worry is that we're hurtling towards keynes's "paradox of thrift" on a grand, global scale. if one person saves a few quid instead of living beyond their means, that's good news; if everyone does it at the same time, it means collapsing demand and an almighty recession. george osborne is not the only finance minister wielding the axe. the us, france, italy, greece, ireland, spain: they're all at it. the risk is that the "uncertainty shock" is replaced by the grim certainty that we're sliding into a japanese-style "lost decade". so it's hardly surprising that the fed chairman felt the need to send a reassuring message from his mountain redoubt: he knows as well as anyone the price of panic. bloom is keen to point out that his work on uncertainty shocks builds on earlier, little-remembered research by a princeton economist: one ben bernanke.
glencore's earnings are buoyant while it's shares flounder – there's a reason the short answer is the market saw through the hype about opportunities for mergers and acquisitions to focus on underlying trading, and it didn't like what it saw. glencore's business model is a lot harder to understand than that of conventional miners because it owns a huge marketing operation, which buys from third parties and sells on to customers across five continents. but ignorance is no excuse and shareholders have only got themselves to blame for not holding out for a lower float price prior to the listing. as for the future, chief executive ivan glasenberg tells us he is optimistic about long-term economic prospects, while in the short term, commodity prices should "sustain current levels". he hints at more bid action to come on top of his attempt to buy out australia's minara resources. optimum coal of south africa could be next in the firing line. but if glencore is a barometer for the world economy, as many now contend, its financial results are hardly reassuring. and with mounting evidence of chinese destocking, and storm clouds gathering in the eurozone and us, expect the shares to tread water, at best.
glencore's billionaire executives share $80m windfall payout glencore's five billionaire executives are to share a further $130m (£80m) windfall as the company announced its first dividend since its poorly received £37bn flotation in may. the secretive swiss-based commodity trader announced an interim dividend of five cents a share after booming commodity markets triggered a 34% rise in first half profits to $2.47bn. however, while the shares rose 13.1p to 402.7p they are still trading at a 24% discount to the 530p float price, meaning that investors such as uk pension funds that bought into the offer are severely out of pocket. the payout to shareholders will result in a $54m cheque to chief executive ivan glasenberg, who owns a stake of almost 16% in the company. meanwhile, star metals traders daniel mate and telis mistakidis will both pick up slightly more than $20m each, while coal executive tor peterson and uk-based oil man alex beard will receive more than $18m and $16 million respectively. all five became paper billionaires following the company's flotation, which immediately catapulted the group into the ftse 100 and, subsequently, meant that uk pension funds tracking the index were forced to buy the shares. the directors will receive the dividend payments along with other shareholders and will argue they have shared some of their pain. glasenberg's stake is now worth £1.38bn less than in may, meaning he has lost around £100m a week. he brushed off any share price woes by painting the troubled stock market as an opportunity for glencore to make cheaper acquisitions. "we view the [flotation] process as the next stage of our journey in value creation of the company," he said. "we welcome our new shareholders with a payment of a maiden dividend of five cents... i would rather be looking at buying assets now on the equity side. markets have come off considerably. on the private company side people are not as optimistic as before. so now is definitely a better time to buy than six months ago when companies were trading at much higher levels. it is definitely an opportunistic time to look at acquisitions." on wednesday glencore launched a a$268m (£170m) cash bid to acquire the 27% of an australia-based nickel miner it does not own. the commodities trader is offering a$0.87 a share for the rump of sydney-listed minara resources, a 36% premium on tuesday's closing price but still a 15% discount on the shares' 2011 high. that move followed the trading house offering $475m for the mina justa project, a copper prospect in peru, while glasenberg has made no secret of his desire to merge his company with xstrata, the london-listed miner of which glencore owns 34%. overall, the interim results revealed that glencore's pre-tax profits rose by 34% to $2.47bn on revenues up from $70bn to $92bn in the six months to 30 june. operating profit for glencore's trading, or marketing, division rose by 45% year-on-year in the first half, which cheered analysts, even though the performance dipped in the second quarter. mining analysts at liberum said in a note: "glencore has more closely tracked the investment banks and traders than its mining peers … we believe the reason is fear of declining commodity trading profitability and access to liquidity. marketing's first-half ebit is up 45% year-on-year, indicating glencore can thrive in difficult trading markets." on the industrial side, which includes glencore's metals, energy and agricultural production, operating profits rose by 54%, boosted by higher commodity prices.
ftse 100's best days stock market volatility seems set to stay - after large falls in the stock market, one obvious trading strategy is to "buy the dips", picking up cheaper shares. rises in percentage terms are easier to compare over time periods than points gains, due to changes in the level of the index since its inception. for example, the 7.89% rise in october 1987 added less than 150 points to the index, but this would not be enough to make it into the top 10 of points rises.
european shares plunge as switzerland caps soaring value of franc european shares dropped to their lowest level in more than two years after the single currency's debt crisis forced switzerland to take emergency action to cap the franc's rise on the world's foreign exchanges. prompting fears of an outbreak of currency wars, the swiss central bank said it would do whatever was necessary to halt the hot money flows that threaten one of the world's richest countries with recession and deflation. the move to set a limit of 1.20 swiss francs to the euro came at the start of another turbulent day that saw shares under pressure, us and german bond prices rise and the norwegian krone become the safe haven of choice for currency investors burnt by the swiss decision to reverse the appreciation of the franc, which lost a record 9% of its value within 15 minutes of the announcement. jeremy cook, chief economist at currency brokers world first, said: "that was the single largest foreign exchange move i have ever seen. this is intervention on a grand scale. "this turns up the heat on the eurozone and other economies who have benefited from weakening their currency in the past couple of years." chris turner, head of foreign exchange strategy at ing, said the swiss central bank's decision marked "a major new round in the currency war". he suggested the next country to act could be japan, which is worried about the impact of a rising yen on its export-dominated economy. "could not japan also set a minimum us dollar exchange rate as a means to battle deflation?" turner said. in a statement, the swiss national bank said: "the current massive overvaluation of the swiss franc poses an acute threat to the swiss economy and carries the risk of a deflationary development." it added that it was prepared to intervene in "unlimited quantities" to enforce the 1.20 limit and was "aiming for a substantial and sustained weakening of the swiss franc". in recent months, currency investors have been deserting the euro in favour of the franc amid growing anxiety about the ability of europe's leaders to tackle the sovereign debt crisis that has resulted in bailouts for greece, ireland and portugal and forced the european central bank to act to prevent italian and spanish borrowing costs spiralling. a general strike in italy added to the jittery mood, with markets also awaiting the decision by germany's constitutional court on the legality of the bailouts for greece, ireland and portugal. the norwegian krone hit an eight-year high as investors sought a new currency refuge after switzerland's move to curb the strength of the franc, posing a fresh dilemma for a norwegian central bank that would like to raise rates to curb inflationary pressure. gold was trading at just under $1,900 an ounce amid predictions that it could test the $2,000 an ounce level over the coming weeks. speaking to the treasury select committee, jim o'neill, former chief economist at goldman sachs, said the central problem facing the eurozone was that too many countries had been allowed to join the single currency. he described the situation as "fragile and tricky", and said that the only way the euro could survive was with political unity and a single central eurozone treasury. european banks were the worst performers on a day that saw the pan-european ftseurofirst 300 index of top shares close at its lowest level since july 2009. the price of credit default swaps – insurance against a borrower being unable to repay – on the uk's bailed-out banks, rbs and lloyds banking group, hit new highs. it now costs about £350,000 to insure £10m of the banks' bonds against default for a year. investors are worried about a range of problems facing the banks, from european debt exposure to problems raising funds and potentially huge bills looming from us lawsuits. shares in london posted modest gains after two days of heavy falls, with the ftse 100 index closing 54 points higher at 5157. however, wall street's dow jones industrial average closed down 101 points, its third day of triple digit losses, despite a better-than-expected performance by the us service sector in august. financial markets believe the slowdown in global growth will prompt the us federal reserve and the bank of england to pump more money into their economies, and may persuade the european central bank to reverse the two interest rate increases announced this year. amid evidence that the global private sector is growing at its weakest pace since august 2009, the organisation for economic co-operation and development is likely to cut its estimates for global growth this year and next when it publishes updated forecasts in paris. jp morgan's global all-industry output index, which is based on the results of purchasing manager surveys of thousands of companies worldwide, edged down from 52.5 in july to 51.5 last month. "growth of global output eased to its weakest in the recovery to date," said david hensley of jp morgan. "although manufacturing was the main drag, the service sector fared only moderately better."
groupon set to ditch flotation plans groupon, the online discount firm, is reportedly close to ditching plans to go public in one of the biggest share offerings to date from the new generation of technology firms. the chicago-based company was scheduled to begin a roadshow next week, visiting potential investors ahead of what was one of the most hotly anticipated digital flotations. the firm had been valued at as much as $25bn. but according to reports those plans have been put on ice. the company did not return calls for comment, but executives told the wall street journal that recent stock market gyrations had led to the decision to put the initial public offering (ipo) on hold. three-year-old groupon offers daily deals for local businesses, and is, by some measures, the fastest growing company of all time. google offered $6bn for the firm last year, only to be rejected as the valuation soared, driven up by its phenomenal growth rate and investors' increasingly frenzied appetite for new dotcom firms. but as groupon prepared the ipo, which had been expected as early as this month, criticism of the firm's accounting and long-term prospects grew. the company was running out of cash, facing mounting competition from amazon and others, and failing to make the grade in china, according to various reports. sucharita mulpuru, a forrester research analyst and long-time critic of groupon, called the decision "catastrophic". "this has got to be the botch-up of the century," she said. "what most surprises me is that they have done this to themselves. they seem to have come undone, icarus-like, because they flew too close to the sun – and not because they were asking for too much money," she said. mulpuru said pressure would continue to mount on groupon, and its chances of bringing an ipo or flotation in the near future were fading fast. "it's all to do with timing," she said. "it's all about what this company could be. every day that goes by is another day that they have to hit their numbers. this is not a business that is humming along smoothly. the pressures on it look great." mason founded groupon in november 2008, and by last october the firm had 35 million registered users. but it has also burned through mountains of cash even as sales soared, losing $180m last year and a further $102.7m in the second quarter of this year alone. scrapping the sale would be the biggest setback to date in the new dotcom boom. companies including linkedin, the business-focused social network, have successfully gone public, while facebook is planning what is expected to be the biggest ipo in the sector next year. but groupon would have been the largest social media ipo to date, making mason a multi-billionaire.
european share crisis: the perils of financial turbulence are growing i'm buying a house. should i go ahead with the deal? probably not if you're a first-time buyer and are thinking it is a first step to climbing the property ladder. thinktank niesr is predicting a real fall of nearly 5% this year and falls of 1.5% a year for the next four years, while ratings agency fitch says: "the weak economic outlook and restricted credit availability lead fitch to consider a further decline of uk house prices of 5-10% annually over the next two years as likely." if the forecasts are correct, it could mean today's first time buyers will see the value of their deposit wiped out or even fall into negative equity. but the royal institution of chartered surveyors reckons prices will dip 2% this year and will not fall by more than 5%. i'm coming to the end of my mortgage deal. what do i do? tracker mortgages, which follow the bank of england base rate, look far more attractive than fixed-rate deals now economists are forecasting low rates for possibly years ahead. if you're at nationwide, go on to its 2.5% standard variable rate (svr). but borrowers at other lenders with high svrs (such as kent reliance's 6.08%), should strongly consider moving to a tracker. ing direct and first direct both offer "lifetime" deals at about 2.5%, but only those with a large deposit need apply. even borrowers locked into fixed deals with hefty early repayment charges could find it is worth paying the exit penalty. i'm on a tracker. i'm laughing aren't i? not if rates do rise. use the opportunity of low monthly mortgage payments to overpay your mortgage . it saves a fortune in the long term; for example, someone with a £150,000 mortgage who pays in an additional £100 a month would save £14,000 and lop four years and three months off the 25-year mortgage term. i've had a windfall. what do i do with it? mark dampier, of hargreaves lansdown, which looks after more than £20bn in client money, says: "sit on the sidelines for now, and bide your time. there's going to be one hell of an opportunity soon." big british blue chip companies, such as unilever and glaxo are paying dividends worth 5-6% a year, twice as much as money will earn on deposit in a bank. "i would be looking to buy into them on decent falls, but don't put it all in at once. we are in the hurricane season for stock markets, and we could see weeks in which prices fall by 10%," says dampier. if there is deflation, the bank could be the best option. in japan, where deflation has taken hold, the stock market is trading at just a quarter of its 1989 level. shouldn't i shove it all in gold or silver? over the past year, gold has risen to nearly $1,900 (£1,190) an ounce, but blackrock, which manages the uk's biggest gold fund, says gold "continues to look somewhat overbought". in the last week of august, after touching $1,900, the gold price fell $150 in just a few days of trading. however, blackrock says buyers reappeared swifty, suggesting that "downside is limited". warren buffett has bought $5bn of bank of america. should i buy bank shares, too? i've got a stock market isa/unit trust which i'm paying into each month. should i keep paying in or bail out? if you don't need the cash now, you should probably stick with it, as selling would simply crystallise the loss. it is worth retaining a sense of perspective. the market stands at the same level it did in mid-july 2010. most experts say "drip-feeding" money into an isa or unit trust is the right thing to do. "regular investing each month gives you a lower risk profile by helping to smooth out some of the stomach-churning highs and lows in the price of shares," says annabel brodie-smith at the association of investment companies. i'm retiring very soon and worried about my pension. what should i do? if you are near to retirement, you may have escaped the worst of the recent turbulence. many workplace schemes automatically move people's money into safer havens such as bonds, property or cash during their last decade at work. this is known as "lifestyling". the bigger problem for those about to retire is that annuity rates have fallen by about 3% in the past two months. a £100,000 fund is now generating £6,624 a year compared with £6,831 two months ago – an annual loss of £207, which adds up to £5,000 over 25 years, said key retirement solutions. one option is to stay at work, perhaps part-time. if that is not possible, some or all of a pension can be deferred until conditions improve. those in a final salary scheme get a promised level of income, no matter what happens to the stock market.
carlyle group plans $100m float secretive is often used to describe carlyle group, the well-connected private equity firm that claims presidents and prime ministers among its advisers. now it is going public, opening its books to scrutiny for the first time in its 24-year history. the investment firm has filed a notice with the us securities and exchange commission (sec) in preparation for a $100m (£63m) initial public offering. details are sketchy, and no date has been set, although a road show is planned for later this year to put the case to investors. carlyle, which manages assets of $153bn, will use the proceeds to repay debt, for general corporate purposes and to expand into regions such as china and latin america, according to the filing. the three co-founders, believed to own about 50% of the firm, will remain at the helm: david rubenstein and william conway will be co-chief executives, while daniel d'aniello will become chairman. the first president bush, his secretary of state james baker and britain's former prime minister sir john major have all been hired as advisers by the firm. michael moore attacked carlyle in his 2004 documentary fahrenheit 9/11, linking it to both the bin laden and bush families. washington-based carlyle reported $2.8bn in revenue last year and, using economic net income – private equity firms' preferred accounting measure – earned just over $1bn. blackstone last year reported $3.1bn in revenue and $485.5m in economic net income. according to its filing, the firm employs 1,100 people in 34 offices in six continents. so far 2011 has been a good year for carlyle, with the flotations of dunkin' brands and the consultancy booz allen hamilton. in 2009 carlyle reached a $20m settlement with andrew cuomo, then new york attorney general, to end an inquiry into claims that it paid well-connected executives to secure investments from new york state's huge pension fund.
why a double-dip recession looms   the government will suffer from lower tax revenues as more people are put out of work and spend less. the treasury will need to borrow more to make up for lost income. borrowing more money to maintain services is where the government's problems first started in the 2008 recession.
gold hits new high as fear stalks financial markets gold hit another record high on tuesday as the escalating eurozone debt crisis and predictions of a deep global economic downturn stalked the financial markets. the spot price of gold hit $1,921.41 per ounce, as double-dip recession fears sent japan's nikkei index falling 2.2% to a six-month low. traders said that the gold price was back on track to hit $2,000 this year. italian and spanish government debt also remained under pressure, after their bond yields rose closer to the danger zone this week. world bank president robert zoellick added to the sense of alarm by warning that the european economy was entering a "particularly sensitive time". "sometimes people hope that you can muddle through by providing financing and liquidity … they now recognise that's not going to happen and instead what you see is with some of the weaker economies, that the austerity policies are pushing them into slower and slower growth and so this could be a downward spiral," zoellick said. uncertainty over greece's second bailout, protests against italy's austerity programme, and german opposition to the european rescue package all weighed on the markets. "the deteriorating fiscal situation in europe continues to spook investors, with continued political discord amongst eu leaders making the likelihood of a quick solution pretty nigh on impossible," said michael hewson, market analyst at cmc markets. there was little respite for europe's weaker nations, with the yield on italian 10-year government debt rising to 5.58%, with the spanish equivalent hitting 5.29%. investors will be watching the situation in italy closely, where silvio berlusconi's government is presenting parliament with an emergency budget that aims to cut the italian deficit by €45bn (£39bn) by 2013. unions who oppose the austerity measures are holding a nationwide strike, disrupting flights in and out of the country.
alexon group issues profits warning amid takeover speculation alexon, the struggling women's fashion group whose brands include ann harvey, dash and kaliko, issued a profits warning and said it is considering takeover approaches or a new share issue. the company said it was in talks with more than one party about forging a deal that could see it taken private and de-listed, but that no firm proposal had been made. "the board confirms that it continues to actively explore a number of options for amore appropriate capital structure," the firm said in a statement monday. "one of the options under review is a possible offer for the issued share capital of the company." the shares tumbled 23% to 5.4p, leaving the group valued at just under £8m. following speculation at the weekend about its financial situation, alexon warned that like-for-like sales were down 9% during august. this was a deterioration on the first half, when like for like sales for the six months to july were slightly positive, up 0.7%, although total sales were down 8% as alexon continued to slow its opening programme to conserve cash.the company said: "although this trend is improving, with sales in the last week of august down 1% on a like for like basis, tthe trading environment and outlook remains very tough. accordingly, having undertaken a re-forecasting exercise, the board now expects the group's performance for the year to be well below its previous expectations." last year, alexon raised £18.5m from investors in a share issue, and renegotiated its borrowings with barclays after nearly breaching banking covenants. it has net debt of £8m and faces repayments next year. its turnover in the year to the end of january was £135.9m, down from £153.4m the year before, and the company made a pre-tax profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items of £800,000, compared with a £900,000 loss the year before. in december, alexon was the first british retailer to issue a snow-related profits warning, claiming its elderly clientele had been snowed off the high street. the retail veteran david adams was appointed chairman this april. the former house of fraser finance director, who is also on the boards of halfords and jjb sports, told shareholders in july that alexon was making progress with its turnaround but "challenging trading conditions" had impacted performance, forcing it to look at ways to reduce debt. online income continues to grow, with sales up 118% at the half year, representing 8% of the mix. the kaliko and alexon brands achieved double-digit like-for-like sales growth. "the latest profit warning and the fact that the company continues to explore its options, months after first announcing its intention to do so, leaves long-suffering shareholders looking at a crumbling margin-recovery story," according to a note from broker panmure gordon. "perhaps an offer will be forthcoming, but this is by no means guaranteed and it all looks a little grim."
european stock markets fall heavily on fresh bailout and recession fears stock markets fell heavily on monday as fresh concerns about europe's debt crisis and evidence of a continent-wide drift towards recession prompted investor flight into assets perceived as risk free. the value of the 100 leading shares on the london market fell by £49bn, extending the two day loss since the publication of poor american jobs figures last friday to £82bn. dealers said investors had been unsettled by reports of a rift between athens and the international monetary fund over the terms of greece's bailout and by a regional election defeat suffered by angela merkel's christian democrat party at the weekend. with public opinion in germany strongly against berlin bankrolling any future eurozone rescue packages, interest rates on both italian and spanish bonds rose to their highest level in a month. the hunt for safe havens sent the price of gold above $1,900 an ounce while 10-year bond yields in germany dropped to record lows of 1.83% at one point. reports from berlin quoted merkel as saying that the situation in greece and italy was "extremely fragile", echoing comments from christine lagarde, the managing director of the imf. the former french finance minister warned that the global economy was on the brink of a new crisis. "we see that there has been, particularly over the summer, a clear crisis of confidence that has seriously aggravated the situation," lagarde told germany's der spiegel. "measures need to be taken to ensure that this vicious circle is broken." lagarde warned that europe's banks needed to be recapitalised, to give them protection from losses on their reserves of sovereign debt. she also argued that europe needed to implement closer fiscal union and speed up its economic growth – which has almost ground to a halt. "the sovereign debt issue weighs on the confidence that market players have in european banks," lagarde said. a survey of purchasing managers from across europe showed activity in the service sector declining modestly, with the fifth successive fall taking the index close to the point where output would be contracting rather than expanding. all eurozone countries experienced a slowdown last month with the exception of france. germany saw growth in service sector activity drop to its lowest in almost two years, while spain saw business contract at the fastest rate since late 2009. jamie dannhauser, analyst at lombard street research, said the pmi data was consistent with spain and italy going back into recession, adding that the loss of momentum for the eurozone should be a serious concern for the european central bank, which has twice raised interest rates this year after becoming alarmed at rising inflation. "an ecb policy shift may not be far away," dannhauser said. tom stevenson, investment director at fidelity international, said: "after a period in which bad news was taken by the market as good news (because it was perceived to increase the likelihood of further monetary stimulus) disappointing announcements have in the past couple of days started to weigh on sentiment again. investors have judged that the us federal reserve is less inclined to ride to the markets' rescue than it was a year ago when it launched the second round of quantitative easing."
stock markets hit hard by fresh recession and eurozone debt fears as pressure mounted on italy to meet its budget commitments, the yield on its bonds jumped to new highs, while news that germany's ruling party lost another regional election in the state of mecklenburg-western pomerania – chancellor angela merkel's fourth straight regional election defeat this year –cast doubt over europe's ability to agree on a solution to the debt problems. this follows friday's news that european union officials had interrupted talks on an aid package for greece as it had fallen behind in cutting its budget deficit. the ftse 100 fell another 3.5% to close at 5102.58, down 189.45, while france's cac and italy's ftse mib both lost more than 4% and germany's dax dropped nearly 5% to its lowest level in more than 22 months. the euro touched a three-week low against the dollar. angus campbell, head of sales at capital spreads, said: "the same old worries and uncertainty that have been haunting the markets over the past year and a half returned today, reminding investors that the european debt crisis is still the biggest single threat to the global economy. "the political losses for germany's leader over the weekend have thrown into question the ability of the eurozone's biggest economy and ultimate paymaster to be able to ratify all the bailouts that have been gifted around in recent months." with wall street shut for the labour day holiday, trading volumes were thin however. mining stocks fell following a report showing that growth in china's services sector fell to its lowest level since november 2005. joshua raymond, chief market strategist at city index, said this had alarmed traders. "china has been one of the bright spots in an otherwise anaemic global economic recovery and should that bright spot start to dim, which august's pmi data may be showing, it is likely to have stronger ramifications for global growth, considering china is the world's fastest-growing economy," raymond said. the rush from equities into "safe-haven" government bonds pushed the interest rate on german bunds to below 1.88%. "that us non-farm payroll reading certainly left traders with little to celebrate on friday, pushing markets on both sides of the atlantic sharply lower as a result. this has certainly set the pace for asian markets too and with wall street closed today for labour day, it seems unlikely that there will be much appetite to start taking on any risk just yet," said weston. "even those who thought a dire jobs report would pave the way for another round of cheap money in the form of qe3 [a third round of quantitative easing] seem to be cooling on the idea – or at least any hope that it'll provide the same shot-in-the-arm response for equity markets."
boardroom pay packages soar to average of £4.5m in 2010 bosses at the helm of britain's top 100 companies saw their pay packages jump by an average of £1.3m to almost £4.5m last year, the biggest leap in nine years, according to a study commissioned by the high pay commission. the average pay deal for a ftse 100 chief executive soared from £3.09m to £4.45m last year as business leaders were able to enjoy record windfalls from share-based incentive schemes, thanks to a sharp bounce in the stock market. the commission, which was set up last november to run for a year, has singled out these highly complex and often opaque share-based reward programmes as the most controversial element of boardroom pay. they are of "staggering complexity" and there is "no clear evidence" they work, it claims. many economists have suggested the recovery in the value of shares in late 2009 and 2010 which boosted executive rewards had little to do with the underlying performance of businesses. rather, it was in large part an indirect consequence of drastic policy measures taken by central banks around the world to drive down long-term interest rates in order to avert a global depression. recent months have seen these share gains go into reverse. the benefits reaped from the stock market bubble by top ftse 100 executives have not been mirrored on the shop floor. instead wage inflation stood at 2.2% for the final three months of 2010. factoring in the rising cost of living – the retail price index stood at 4.8% last december – that means most workers in britain saw a significant decline in their real incomes. "the evidence exposes the myth that big bonuses and high salaries result in better company performances," said deborah hargreaves, chair of the commission. "there has been massive growth in what has been termed performance-related pay, yet no such corresponding leap forward in company performance." she suggested the real acceleration in top executive pay had been hidden behind an array of bewilderingly complex schemes purportedly designed to peg share-based rewards to company performance. "all we've seen is things getting much more complicated – in many ways masking the real value of what executives get paid," she said. "corporate governance reforms attempting to link pay with performance appear to have done little more than add to the huge complexity of executive packages, reward schemes and bonuses that make up the pay of ftse 100 directors." the study of executive pay deals, carried out for the commission by incomes data services, showed the average annual director's bonus rose by 187% in 10 years. the commission said the disparity between pay and performance was sharpest at britain's leading banks, several of which have relied on taxpayer support in recent years either through bank of england liquidity assistance or in bailout recapitalisations in the case of lloyds banking group and royal bank of scotland.
markets slide as us jobs stagnate stock markets dived on friday after weak us jobs figures, news of a slump in uk construction orders and further wrangling over the eurozone's greek bailout unnerved investors. politicians on both sides of the atlantic are expected to come under pressure to reverse the decline in growth rates that is pushing western economies to the edge of a second recession in three years. declines in business and consumer confidence have hit manufacturing and other key sectors, with knock-on effects for jobs and consumer demand. barack obama, who is due to deliver a speech on employment next thursday, is expected to face calls to stimulate the economy from his democrat supporters despite intense lobbying by opposition tea party representatives on capitol hill. economist david blanchflower, a former member of the bank of england's monetary policy committee, accused osborne of sitting on his hands at an important time for the economy and warned that action was needed to create jobs or britain could suffer a double-dip recession. his concerns echoed those of shadow chancellor ed balls, who said osborne should use a g7 meeting in marseille next weekend to agree a growth strategy to stop britain and other leading economies from falling back into recession. figures from the us labour department showed america failed to create any new jobs in august. analysts expected at least 75,000 jobs to have been created last month, but the figure came in at zero. the us labour department said it was the weakest reading since last september, with firms holding off hiring after declines in consumer and business confidence. few firms made redundancies, but the data showed a freeze on new hirings. the poor snapshot of the labour market led goldman sachs and several other big wall street firms to forecast that the us could back further rounds of quantitative easing. goldman said that the federal open market committee, which determines the policy followed by the us central bank, might extend maturity on the fed's $1.65 trillion (£1trn) of government bond holdings after its policy meeting this month. "this report will certainly strengthen the case for the doves on the committee going into the next meeting this month,' said millan mulraine, a senior strategist with td securities in new york. rob carnell, chief international economist at ing, said the figures would provide further ammunition for those arguing for policy easing. he said it would be difficult to boost consumer demand while the figures showed real wage growth stalling. "if there are any glimmers of hope, and basically there aren't, you could point to the smaller decline in the government sector as a potential slowing of public sector job-shedding," he added. "you could also assume this has bolstered the chances of a new round of quantitative easing from the fed before the year end." britain's mpc is also expected to discuss further quantitative easing at its next meeting after one of its chief hawks, martin weale, argued that the deteriorating situation in the uk might warrant further support from the central bank. more problems also emerged in athens following negotiations between the international monetary fund, the eu and the greek government. talks were suspended after disagreement on the success of greek austerity measures, which have already failed to generate the expected savings. the situation worsened after the finnish government warned that it would only agree to lending greece further funds if it was given a cash security.
us jobs data puts markets on recession alert fears are mounting that key us unemployment data will show the world's biggest economy is teetering on the brink of re-entering recession. us non-farm payroll data – due out at lunchtime on friday – is expected to show an increase of about 60,000 jobs in august, far below a 117,000 increase in july. economists at goldman sachs warned investors on thursday that they expect an increase of just 25,000 jobs, compared with an earlier estimate of 50,000. there have even been suggestions that the figure could be negative, which would send further shockwaves through global markets. reflecting those fears, gold, the traditional safe haven in troubled times, jumped more than 1% to $1853. the expected slowdown in job creation is worrying because the us generally needs to add about 150,000 jobs each month just to keep up with the growth in the working-age population. tim schroeders, who helps manage $1bn of equities at pengana capital in australia said: "the us recovery remains anaemic, with lingering concerns over job creation and house prices. expectations are relatively low for tonight's jobs data." ben potter, market strategist at ig markets, said traders were suffering with "classic nervousness" ahead of the jobs data. "as it stands, the market is expecting a figure of around 70,000 jobs. however, the whisper numbers have been as low as zero," he said. "so an inline result could see the market move higher." there now remains a concern in some quarters that friday's number could well be negative, which would be a shock and certainly give the fed and the markets food for thought. in any case the consensus has now moved to between 25,000 and 65,000, with the unemployment rate staying at 9.1%." president obama is due to unveil his plan to tackle unemployment and revive the economy next week – but only after settling a diary clash battle with john boehner, the republican speaker of the house of representatives. white house officials had asked boehner if the president could address a joint session of congress next wednesday. normally, such a request for a big set-piece speech would have been granted automatically. however, growing political friction in washington led boehner to deny the request. boehner said the speech would have clashed with a series of already scheduled votes. but many political experts say the real reason was because it clashed with the next republican presidential debate. obama has been forced to delay his speech until next thursday when he will arguably be up against even tougher competition: the nationally televised opening game of the new nfl season featuring the defending super bowl champions, the green bay packers. the ftse 100 index was down 1% to 5357 at 8am, with only two companies – inmarsat and rangold resources – in positive territory. banks were among the biggest fallers today, with rbs down more than 3%, at 25.42p and barclays 3% lower at 175p. the decline in the ftse was mirrored by similar falls across europe and asia, with japan's nikkei falling back below the 9,000 points level after six straight days of gains. in the us the s&p 500 is forecast to open 0.5% down.
glencore planning $1.2bn bid for south african coal miner optimum the company, which in effect controls the market in several of the world's raw materials, has teamed up with a former south african politician to table a bid that values south african coal mine optimum coal at $1.2bn (£735m). glencore bought a 14.1% stake in johannesburg-listed optimum and said it had agreements that may increase this to 43.5%. the glencore-led consortium said it planned to offer 34 rand (£3) a share to take control of the rest of the miner. however, optimum has received a rival offer and said it did not view glencore's offer as a "firm intention" to make a bid. the commodities trader is understood to be planning to take a 70% stake in optimum, which is south africa's sixth-largest coal producer. the remaining 30% would be split between cyril ramaphosa, a leading figure in the fight against apartheid and former leader of the mineworkers union who is now a businessman, and a black empowerment organisation. ivan glasenberg, glencore's multi-billionaire chief executive, said last week that he was "aggressively" looking for bargain acquisitions as the value of the world's resource companies dropped in the market turmoil. last week glencore launched a a$268m (£170m) cash bid to acquire the 27% of australia-based nickel miner minara resources it does not own. glencore's director of coal operations, tor peterson, said optimum's mines and ports were an "attractive addition" to the company's existing south african operations. "we expect strong chinese and indian imports and concerns surrounding nuclear generation capacity to result in sustained underlying demand for coal," peterson said. shares in glencore have fallen nearly 22% since their blockbuster $10bn initial public offering in may, wiping hundreds of millions of pounds off the paper worth of dozens of its leading executives. glasenberg's stake is now worth £1.3bn less than in may. the shares closed down 2% to 412p.
next's buy-back bonanza the reasons for next's resilience and popularity are well-known. it manages stock tightly, doesn't do adventurous acquisitions, finances itself conservatively and mastered the logistics of home shopping via its directory business a decade before the arrival of the internet. and it generates an awful lot of cash – so much that a share buy-back programme has been running more or less constantly for years. the 2004 annual report showed an average of 275m shares in issue during the year; today there are 172m. pre-tax profits these days are about 60% higher, so the effect of reducing the number of shares in issue has been to turbocharge growth in earnings per share. chief executive lord wolfson, one might say, almost gives share buy-backs, which have had a terrible press lately, a good name. what's the secret? the short answer is that he does something almost no other buy-back enthusiast ever does: he states in advance the price at which it would be earnings-enhancing to buy back shares. thus january's report said spending £160m to buy back shares at £20 apiece would enhance earnings by about 5%. the arithmetic, of course, becomes less attractive the faster the share price rises, which is why next shareholders should be thankful that all but £10m of that £160m was spent before the shares touched £25. purists point out that earnings per share is a poor measure of real value-creation and that return on capital is superior. true enough, and even wolfson could do more to spell out the relevant calculations for next. but at least he has established the principle that share buy-backs have to be justified by the price paid. most other companies simply ignore the point. look no further than next's great rival, marks & spencer, which in 2007-08, under sir stuart rose's leadership, spent £556m buying back shares at 441p. price today: 326.5p. a bad deal, especially now that rose's successor finds himself spending £600m on yet another revamp of the stores.
'defiant' hedge fund fraudster raj rajaratnam could face harsher term the hedge fund manager convicted of conducting america's biggest insider trading scheme has told court officials he isn't "clear" that what he did was wrong. the admission may lead to an ever harsher sentence, say legal experts. the sri lankan-born billionaire told the court official he wasn't "clear" on "the line between permissible 'detective work' and impermissible insider trading", prosecutors said. "i am not aware of anyone who lost money as a result of my actions presented to the jury," he told the probation official, according to the government. "the trades at issue were made in liquid stocks with market makers. they were not made with individual investors who would have refrained from trading but for my purchases and sales. "all of galleon's investors were made whole after galleon closed down," he said. in court documents, rajaratnam has called the prosecution's suggested sentencing "grotesquely severe", and said it would exceed the average term given to defendants convicted of child pornography offences, manslaughter and robbery. prosecutors said rajaratnam's comments "reflect a serious disregard for the law" and warrant a severe sentence. in documents sent to the judge, prosecutors said rajaratnam has "absolutely no appreciation" that he "cheated the system". stuart slotnick, a former state prosecutor and now white collar crime expert at law firm buchanan ingersoll & rooney, said rajaratnam's comments would "absolutely count against him". judges use sentencing guidelines that are influenced by a points system related to the details of a case, said slotnick. co-operating with the prosecution subtracts points, while a leadership role in the crime adds points and increases the likelihood of a harsher sentence. "the guidelines are only advisory, but acceptance of responsibility will be the centrepiece of the prosecution's argument that he should get a higher sentence," said slotnick. "without question, this is going to make thing a lot worse for him." john coffee, a columbia law school professor, said holwell was a conservative judge unlikely to be swayed by pressure from prosecution or defence. but he said the hedge fund manager could still face 20 years in jail. "many insider dealing cases are people who stumble over a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. this fellow was out seeking insiders across wall street. he was a professional, doing this professionally." rajaratnam did not testify at the trial, and hasn't spoken publicly about his conviction or the charges against him. he was under no obligation to speak at the hearing with the probation officer.
shares tumble on fears over greek default the escalating financial crisis hit the french and german stock markets particularly hard, and pushed italy's borrowing costs up sharply. "eurozone officials have appeared to be taking a hardline stance on greek in recent sessions suggesting that the country may not see the next tranche of its bailout funds without more austerity," said jane foley of rabobank. "the hardline position being taken against greece has fed speculation that perhaps germany is preparing for a greek exit from the eurozone. reports that germany is increasingly focusing on ways to protect its banks in the event of a greek default are circulating." the prospect of greece exiting the eurozone were fuelled by a senior member of angela merkel's german government openly discussing the prospect that athens might not receive its next slice of bailout cash. "the situation is very serious, more than some had thought," said peter altmaier. "exclusion from the eurozone is not legally possible at the moment. that means the greeks must decide themselves if they stay in the eurozone or if an exit is better for them." amid the uncertainty, the euro fell to $1.36 against the dollar and hit a 10-year low against the japanese yen. the major asian stock markets all fell into the red, with the nikkei falling 2.3% and hong kong's hang seng index losing 4.2%. italy was also forced to pay a much higher interest rate when it auctioned €7.5bn worth of 12-month bonds. the average yield, or interest rate, on the debt hit 4.153%, up from 2.959% at a similar sale in august. moody's is rumoured to be planning to cut the french banking sector's credit rating, due to its exposure to greek debt. in paris, bnp paribas's shares fell 12%, with société générale losing 11.7% and credit agricole down 11.1%. the heavy falls came despite socgen pledging to sell €4bn of assets to strengthen its balance sheet. "these fears are likely to manifest themselves in the form of further strains within the whole european banking system, as banks remain reluctant to lend to each other in a possible repeat of the 2008 lehman crisis," warned michael hewson, market analyst at cmc markets. joshua raymond of city index said that "the fresh uncertainty over a credit downgrade for french banks and rumours about part nationalisation is causing some violent swings to the downside and impacting broader european trade". uk government debt remained a "safe haven" on monday, with the yield – or interest rate – on 10-year sovereign debt dropping to 2.21%. italian and spanish yields rose slightly, to 5.47% and 5.27% respectively.
ftse 100 executive pay rising faster than inflation the directors of britain's largest companies have secured above-inflation pay rises and larger than normal bonuses this year in a rush to make up for the recession pay freeze. stephen cahill, partner in the remuneration team at deloitte, said: "it is not surprising that after a two-year period of widespread pay freezes there has been a return to pay increases for executive directors. what has surprised us is the number of salary increases above 5%, which is significantly above inflation and the increase in average employee earnings." bonus payouts rose from 71% of maximum in 2010 to 87% in 2011 for the 100 largest firms. for the ftse 250, bonuses leapt from 54% of maximum to 86%. under most bonus schemes, a maximum pot is reserved at the beginning of each year and payouts depend on performance. cahill added: "there is a strong argument for a recalibration of both targets and expectations to ensure that these payouts do not, in effect, become almost guaranteed." over the past 10 years, bonuses have averaged between 70% and 80% of maximum. bonus pots have remained at between 150% and 100% of salary, meaning that many directors need only deliver a run of the mill performance to double their salaries. the remuneration of britain's best-paid executives is coming under intense scrutiny. the government is reviewing executive pay mechanisms and transparency, with proposals due before christmas, while recent reports cite research compiled by thomson reuters datastream which showed that one in five ftse 100 companies paid their chief executive more than they paid in uk corporation tax last year. deloitte recommends allowing deferred or unvested awards to lapse in the event of gross misconduct or mis-statement of results. it also says that more directors should hold shares. in the top-performing companies, chief executives hold a median of 11 times salary.
german court clears greek bailout germany's highest court has ruled that angela merkel's controversial decision to contribute billions of euros to the first rescue package of greece and other fiscally troubled countries last year was not illegal. but the federal constitutional court also decreed that parliament should be more involved in such decisions. presiding judge andreas vosskuhle told the court that although germany's participation had not violated parliament's right to control spending, "the government is obligated in the cases of large expenditures to get the approval of the parliamentary budgetary committee". the verdict "should not be misinterpreted as a constitutional blank cheque for further rescue packages," he added. the three cases had been brought by a group of eurosceptic academics and a rebel mp from the bavarian sister party of chancellor merkel's christian democratic union (cdu). they argued that the bailouts violated german law, as well as european treaties, and could turn the eu into a "transfer union", where rich states such as germany finance the fiscal indiscretions of poorer members like greece. had the claimants won, analysts feared the euro would have been thrown into crisis as the german government could theoretically have been forced to retrospectively withdraw its substantial contribution to the eurozone rescue fund, the efsf – a debilitating move given that a quarter of the initial €440bn (£388bn) package pledged by eurozone leaders last year came from german coffers. but many investors still fear that the court ruling will further slow the already sluggish decision-making process in the eurozone. europe's response to the debt crisis has already been criticised for its lack of urgency, and additional requirements to consult parliament could slow the fund's reaction time to the crisis. merkel's next challenge begins almost immediately when the bundestag, germany's lower house of parliament, begins debating the second bailout, increasing germany's share of guarantees to as much as €211bn. more than 20 mps from merkel's centre-right coalition have indicated they will vote against the government when the package is put to parliament at the end of the month.
markets surge in expectation of eurozone bailout action global stock markets registered a second day of strong gains in response to reports that european leaders were busy working on the details of a comprehensive plan to bail out greece and secure the finances of other vulnerable eurozone economies. the ftse 100 rose 4% to 5294 while the french cac and german dax closed up more than 5%. in mid-afternoon trading, the dow jones was up 2.89% at 11,363. bond markets, which have shown a flight to safety in recent months, eased with demand for italian and spanish bonds rising. copper, up 7.3%, led a rally in commodities prices which also saw us crude oil up 4.3% near $84 a barrel, while the spot price of gold rose 1.8% to near $1,660 an ounce after several days of heavy falls from its recent record high over $1,900. richard batty, global investment strategist at standard life, said a relief rally was underway following a change of direction by at least some senior eu officials. "the market is anticipating that eu leaders understand now is the time to react. there is a sense that the europeans would be very foolish not to do something big to rescue the situation," he said. eu officials signalled at last weekend's international monetary fund gathering in washington that brussels is preparing to raise the size of the eurozone rescue fund from €440bn (£382bn) to €2tn and concede a 50% write-off on greek sovereign debts. the shift in thinking among officials, most of whom denied the seriousness of the debt problem until recently, was considered a seismic one by many investors and heralded a new realism by eu leaders. batty said if progress is not seen to be made over the next few weeks and leaders continue to openly disagree over the need for a bigger bailout, then the current rebound in investors' appetite for risk would dissipate. a vote on tuesday night in the greek parliament to impose a property tax to raise around €2bn should be enough to convince the european central bank and imf, which supply the country with new loans since it was frozen out of international private markets, to release the next €8bn due from its €110bn bailout facility. without the €8bn tranche, greece faces running out of money to pay all its commitments by the middle of october. george osborne said last weekend that countries have six weeks at most to save the euro, and that a larger bailout fund was needed to convince bond markets that a sufficient buffer against further difficulties in the eurozone was in place.
greece will meet commitments, papandreou tells germany's business leaders - video source: reuters us president barack obama says the financial crisis in europe is contributing to slow economic growth worldwide philip booth, from cass business school, says that imf and the eu has not woken up to the realities of the sovereign debt situation greece may not be able to pay civil servants next month as euro ministers have refused to say when they will release €8bn in bailout money
stock market turmoil: how it affects you the closure of final salary pensions and the shift to ones dependent on the stock market means the falls over the past month are more painful than ever for millions of workers. at the beginning of july, the ftse 100 was standing at just over 6,000, but since then has lost about 17%-18% in value – more than £200bn – and further falls are looking likely. worst hit are those approaching retirement: they won't be able to make up the losses. what's more, the turmoil in markets has sent annuity rates to rock-bottom lows. annuity rates determine how much pension income you get in return for the money you saved during your lifetime, so this means pensioners retiring today will see a lower income. here's the silver lining. while the italians and spanish have seen money market interest rates shoot towards 6%, the reverse is happening in the uk. short-term money has, oddly enough, become cheaper as markets now think the bank of england won't raise interest rates until well into 2012. in recent weeks, banks and building societies have been rushing out rate cuts on nearly all their deals, so if you're coming off an expensive fixed-rate mortgage you're one of the lucky ones. but the new banking crisis is probably bad news for first-time buyers, effectively shut out of the market by demands for huge deposits. this is unlikely to ease anytime soon as banks do everything they can to preserve their capital. bad news. the "big six" energy providers have all raised prices, with 17%-18% increases in the gas price and about 10% added to electricity bills. however, if the wholesale price of gas and electricity tracks the price of oil, as it tends to do, maybe households will see an easing off in further price rises. but the utility companies have a long history of failing to pass on price falls in the wholesale market, so don't expect price cuts in the short term. the big play of the past few years – mining and commodity stocks fuelled by voracious demand from china and other emerging markets – will look exposed if global growth slows.
only ecb has power to 'scare' global stock markets, warns imf   with investors poised to give their verdict on the weekend talks in washington of finance ministers and central bank governors, european policymakers insisted that fresh moves to boost the fighting fund to support struggling eurozone members were in the offing. "we need to find a mechanism where we can turn one euro in the efsf into five, but there is no decision on how we could do that yet," one senior european official said. some european countries, including germany, are sceptical about using the ecb to provide the leverage but the international monetary fund (imf) insisted there was no alternative. antonio borges, head of the imf's european division, said: "it is very important that we see a combination of the ecb and the efsf. anyone who thinks that the efsf will be a miraculous solution to the problem is making a very big mistake. "the ecb is the only agent which can really scare the markets." privately, many officials at the imf and in its 187 member governments accept the inevitability of a greek default and now see the priority as preventing the two much bigger economies of italy and spain being dragged down. greece's finance minister, evangelos venizelos, said greece would not default before talks with the imf about the next €8bn instalment of its rescue package due next month. sources in washington said greece would get the money in the hope that europe would buy itself enough time to piece together a convincing anti-contagion strategy. the likeliest time of a greek default is thought to be in late 2011 or early 2012. on sunday night, german chancellor angela merkel said she would not rule out letting a eurozone country default on its debts once the currency union has its permanent rescue fund, the european stability mechanism (esm), in place. in an hour-long interview with ard television, merkel underlined the importance of an expanded mechanism to prevent future crises spilling over into other nations. she said that once the esm is in place, "i don't exclude that we at some point … that one could do the insolvency of a state just as of banks." the esm is currently slated to start in 2013. the chancellor also said a permanent structure would allow other european partners to set up a "barrier" around greece to prevent a domino effect on other nations. prices of shares and commodities plunged last week as dealers took fright at europe's intensifying debt crisis and signs of a marked slowdown in the world economy. the managing director of the imf, christine lagarde, said the world was in a "very dangerous place" while the president of the world bank, robert zoellick, said there was a risk of the contagion spreading to emerging economies, which have been performing more strongly than the rich western nations. "the numbers emerging out of developing countries over the past month are shaking and shaky," zoellick said. european policymakers in washington responded to pressure from the us, britain and emerging country members of the g20 group. brazil's finance minister, alexandre tombini, said his country's experience showed the need to act with "overwhelming force", while tim geithner, the us treasury secretary, said: "decisions as to how to conclusively address the region's problems cannot wait until the crisis gets more severe." justine greening, economic secretary to the treasury, said britain had been urging europe to get to grips with the crisis for several weeks. "i think we've had some positive steps taken this weekend towards the eurozone being able to do that in terms of both recapitalising the banks in europe that are under stress but also [by] putting in place a bailout fund that is big enough to give confidence to the markets," she said. olli rehn, europe's commissioner for economic and financial affairs, said the eurozone needed to do more. "we need to build a bridge and i think this bridge will be developed on the basis of the current reform of the efsf and as one part of that next stage we are contemplating the possibility of leveraging the efsf resources to have more firepower and thus have a stronger financial firewall to support our member states doing the right thing." one option to increase the potency of the efsf currently under discussion would be for the ecb to commit large amounts of funding, with the capital in the efsf used to cover potential losses. german finance minister, wolfgang schäuble, said he was open to the idea of leveraging europe's rescue fund but said that did not necessarily mean the ecb should provide the extra firepower. mohamed el-erian, co-chief investment officer of the giant bond fund pimco, said: "it is encouraging that … european officials are signalling a better appreciation of the depth and potential consequences of the crisis. "now they need to translate this into decisive actions underpinned by a common vision of what they want the eurozone to look like in five years' time."
troubled stock markets continue slide on euro bank fears an attempt by world leaders to stem the fall in global stock markets failed to prevent another volatile day on the global markets. finance ministers and central bankers from the group of 20 major economies meeting in washington dc vowed on thursday night, after a torrid day on stock markets, to take "all steps necessary" to calm the global financial system and said central banks stood ready to supply liquidity. in another stomach-churning day for investors, most markets finally ended in positive territory. the ftse 100 closed 25.20 points higher at 5066.81, having fallen as low as 4928.14, well below the psychological 5000 level. despite the late rise, the leading index suffered its second worse weekly fall of the year so far, down 5.62%. european markets were equally unsettled, but germany's dax ended 0.6% higher while france's cac rose 1%. shares had earlier turned negative in europe after deutsche bank warned that european banks could take bigger writedowns than expected on greek debt. private sector creditors agreed in july to take a 21% loss on greek bonds maturing before 2020 but the loss is more likely to be 25% or more, said charlotte jones, in charge of group controlling at germany's biggest lender. the july agreement was based on a greek government bond yield of 9%, but the yield has risen much further since then. "today, there are no greek government bonds trading below yields of 13.75%," jones told reuters. "in the event the private sector involvement is executed with market rates remaining above 9%, then, for every additional percentage point in market rate, the net present value haircut for investors will increase by a little over four percentage points." manoj ladwa, a senior trader at etx capital, also pointed to germany's renewed rejection of euro bonds. "that could have propped up the market. it's a no-no for the time being." his colleague, mark priest, added: "i do not see how everything has changed overnight. kickstarting the economy is easier said than done and it will take a lot more than what has been put on the table." g20 leaders had overnight indicated that the eurozone was working on bolstering the €440bn (£385bn) financial rescue fund. the communique from washington said the bloc would implement "actions to increase the flexibility of the efsf [european financial stability facility] and to maximise its impact" by the eurozone's next ministerial meeting in october. commodities continued their sell-off, with the london copper price hitting its lowest level in more than a year. it is on course for its steepest weekly loss since october 2008. crude oil and gold edged higher but remain on track for their biggest weekly losses in more than a month. gold appears to have lost some of its safe-haven appeal and is headed for the third week of decline. gloomy economic assessments from the international monetary fund coupled with poor figures from the eurozone this week have stoked fears of a double-dip recession. in asia, shares continued their slide on friday. hong kong's hang seng was down 1.4% while the south korean stock market lost 5.7% and shares in taiwan fell 3.6%. only the indonesian market, which posted a near 9% drop on thursday, the worst since 2008, bounced back by 1.7%. jane foley, senior currency strategist at rabobank, said: "the statement from the g20 may have taken the edge off the current bitter market sentiment but the reassurances from the finance ministers lack substance. until politicians back their words with actions in respect to moving closer to a solution to the eurozone debt crisis, markets will continue to worry about a messy and painful outcome from the eurozone debt crisis, and flight to quality is set to remain the order of the day." two greek newspapers reported that the greek finance minister, evangelos venizelos, had told lawmakers he saw three scenarios to resolve the debt crisis, including one where the country obtains an orderly default with a 50% haircut for bondholders. the other scenarios would be a disorderly default, or the implementation of a second €109bn (£95bn) bailout plan agreed between greece and its lenders in july. in a statement issued by the greek finance ministry, venizelos said: "greece has taken the final decision to do everything in its power in order for all the european council decisions of 21 july, vital both for the euro area and for greece itself, to be implemented fully and on time. "all other discussions, rumours, comments and scenarios that distract attention from this central goal and political obligation of greece, and of all the other euro area member states and european institutions, do not offer good service towards our common european case." echoing cameron's comments, former chancellor norman lamont said the world was "teetering on the brink". while the global growth problems cannot be solved easily, "the problem of greece could be solved either by having a controlled default or bailing it out", he argued on the bbc's today programme. "the logic of currency unions is that the stronger countries help the weaker countries." but he was doubtful that this would happen soon. "the crisis will just drag on and on, sapping confidence." michael hewson, market analyst at cmc markets, said: "the outlook for the european banking system remains highly uncertain, with downgrades for seven italian banks, uncertainty over the next tranche of the greek bailout, and an imf report suggesting that the recent crisis in europe suggests that the banks could be undercapitalised to the tune of €300bn and that politicians need to act now to avert a crisis."
us stocks plunge amid widespread fears of second recession the us stock market collapsed on thursday as fears of a second recession worried investors and europe's woes wiped billions off stock markets around the world. the fall continued as the release of figures showing a contraction in china's manufacturing sector for a third straight month helped drive down oil prices. gold, copper and other commodities also fell on fears that the global economy is heading in to another slowdown. the dollar soared against the pound, euro and other currencies, as investors bet the us currency was the safest place for their money. in washington, world bank president robert zoellick said the global economy was in a "danger zone". speaking at the beginning of the world bank and international monetary fund annual meetings, zoellick said: "in 2008 many people said they did not see the turbulence coming. leaders have no such excuse now. dangerous times call for courageous people." zoellick said that the chances of a double-dip recession remained unlikely. "but my confidence in that belief is being eroded daily by the steady drip of difficult economic news." he said governments in the us, europe and japan had to act or the crisis would spread around the world. "not to do so is irresponsible," he said. the dow jones industrial average closed down 381 points, or 3.5%, to 10733.83. on wednesday it dropped 284 points. the standard & poor's 500-stock index lost 37.20 points, or 3.2%, to 1129.56, and the technology-orientated nasdaq composite slumped 82.52, or 3.2%, to 2455.67. jamie farmer, executive director of dow jones indexes, said: "what we are seeing is the continued prevalence of anxiety in all the markets." he said the fed's comments and china's slowdown had made nervous investor even more anxious. "judging from people i have spoken to, volatility is the new normal. this may be what we are in for for the foreseeable future," he said. during a nervy and dramatic day's trading in london, the ftse 100 index tumbled 246 points, or 4.67%, to close at 5041. this is the blue-chip index's worst daily fall in percentage terms since march 2009, and its biggest points fall since november 2008 in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers. markets across europe shared the gloom, with the german dax losing 4.9% and france's cac falling by 5.2%. giles watts, head of equities at city index, said the sell-off was driven by "the sheer weight of evidence pointing towards a sharp slowdown in global activity", making a new recession more likely. "all of the negative news has just culminated into a scenario whereby investors are asking themselves whether they really should be putting their money in risky stocks or defensive safe havens. today's markets show the answer has firmly been the latter of those two options," he said. louise cooper, markets analyst at bgc partners, said traders were deeply fearful about the prospects for the world economy. she said: "the future is so uncertain – the world could look significantly different in a month's time. greece could have defaulted, we could be in the middle of a banking crisis – a bank could have even gone bust."
an end to the greed creed rightwing market fundamentalism was a harsh economic dogma. at its core was the assertion that unfettered free markets always produce the "best" results. market fundamentalists assumed by definition that the private sector would spend money more wisely than government, the regulation of business had to be kept to a minimum, and taxes were a barely necessary evil to be cut back to the bone. these articles of faith conveniently excused the excesses of the corporate sector, especially their soaring remuneration, and justified tearing the social fabric asunder in the quest for a low-tax, small-state government. this fundamentalism excluded any debate about the morality of markets or redistributive justice by definition. as the rich became richer at the expense of the rest, it was convenient to assert that outcomes generated by "free markets" were the unavoidable result of "natural" economic forces. this excluded any consideration of ethics, morality or values from economics and most of politics. conservative governments sought to embed these dogmas with huge tax cuts for the wealthy, and a squeeze on wages in deregulated and privatised labour markets for everybody else. labour can be proud of its record in government from 1997. we halved child and pensioner poverty. we revived the nhs and created the minimum wage and the tax credit system to make work pay. many centre-left governments of the 1990s made similar progress. but none were strong enough to tame the rightwing dogmas already unleashed. now is the time to do just that. market fundamentalism was always a self-serving conservative political ideology masquerading as economic theory. it was used to legitimise the behaviour of the privileged few. it created an increasingly powerful plutocracy ferociously protecting its own interests. it did not deliver a just or sustainable society at home or a stable system globally, and it must now be discarded. so what should replace it? we need a new paradigm in economics. the choice is not between state and market: a healthy market needs an active government to operate. the rule of law, a functioning infrastructure and enforcement of standards are crucial for the market to work ethically and effectively. labour has always recognised the value of dynamic free markets in creating a productive and prosperous economy. we will need this more than ever in a fast changing world. what we want to see is the creation of a market system that reflects the ethics of most decent people in this country – to use the talents of all, seeing no one is left behind. an idea of distributive justice and mitigating some of the unfair and socially undesirable outcomes of free markets has to be at the core of this. we need an economy where morality and ethics count. society should have expectations for the behaviour of its entrepreneurs and those who succeed that are more exacting than fixation with profit maximisation, celebrity and personal enrichment. civic values, loyalty to the workforce and the local community in which they operate would have a much greater value in the new moral economy. market fundamentalist culture has lauded individual greed and personal acquisitiveness as a virtue. it has regarded paying taxes as something to be avoided with no censure from society at large. this needs to change. a moral economy can regulate for standards in the labour market, protecting the relatively powerless from exploitation and impoverishment. consumers have shown that they care about ethical concepts like fair trade and decent standards. we should consider ways this can be more effectively represented in corporate structures and shareholder accountability, incentivising companies who do the right thing rather than rewarding bad behaviour. these are the values labour must apply to build a moral economy for this new era.
stock markets tumble after operation twist … and doubt stock markets tumbled on thursday and the pound slumped to a one-year low against the us dollar as investors took fright at a gloomy warning about the world economic outlook from the us central bank. investors rushed to the safety of the us dollar, driving the pound down by one and a half cents to $1.5328, the lowest level since september 2010. the gold price also fell, losing almost $50 an ounce to $1,729. the city had been "left reeling" by the sharply negative tone adopted by the fed on wednesday night, when it warned that the us economic recovery was at risk, said joshua raymond, chief market strategist at city index. the fed's open markets committee said the economic outlook had deteriorated sharply, noting there were "significant downside risks" to its economic forecasts and indicating that a full recovery was years away. "recent indicators point to continuing weakness in overall labour market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains elevated," it said. this drove the dow jones down 2.5% on wednesday, while the standard & poor's 500 index lost 3%. the dollar hit a seven-month high on thursday as investors scrambled for safety. commodities tumbled on news that chinese factory output had shrunk for a third month in september as flagging overseas demand put the brakes on new orders. brent crude oil lost more than $2 to $107.50 a barrel, while us crude dropped $3 to $82.92 a barrel. copper lost 3.3% on the london metal exchange, falling to a 10-month low of $8,028.75 a tonne. "it is another blow after the fed's language about downside risks on the economy really hurt sentiment," david thurtell of citigroup in singapore told reuters. "operation twist", named after a similar measure launched in the 1960s under president kennedy, will see the fed buying $400bn (£258bn) of long-term treasury bonds by june 2012 and selling shorter-term debts. the measure is aimed at driving down long-term interest rates across the economy, in an attempt to reduce the cost of borrowing for indebted homeowners and struggling firms. gary jenkins, head of fixed income at evolution securities, said: "twist and doubt? you have to hand it to the fed. they have gone all retro on us and persuaded the market to call their latest attempt at intervention 'operation twist' rather than 'qe 3'. the latter might imply that the first two attempts didn't quite work out as hoped so far better to change the name." he added: "the basic idea is of course to stimulate economic growth by persuading investors into risk assets … the one thing that is clear is that mr bernanke is prepared to use all the weapons in his armoury in order to try and ensure that the us does not enter a long period of low growth, so operation twist may not be the last intervention unless it works. and of course the uk is about to follow suit." "more generally, the cost of borrowing simply isn't the problem. businesses don't have the confidence to invest and half of all mortgage borrowers don't have the home equity needed to refinance at lower rates."
operation twist won't kickstart the us economy this time last year, all the talk was about how quickly the federal reserve would start withdrawing the extraordinary stimulus provided during the great recession of 2008-09. wall street was betting on when interest rates would start going up. all bets on higher borrowing costs are now, of course, off. two reports from the international monetary fund this week – the world economic outlook and the global financial stability review – have provided a bleak picture. put simply, the fund is warning that the global economy is highly fragile and time is running out for policymakers. as to what the fed is doing, last night's announcement marked a third distinct phase of its anti-recession strategy. in phase one, the fed slashed its short-term policy rate, the equivalent of the bank of england's bank rate. in phase two, it twice used quantitative easing – flooding the market with newly minted electronic money created through the purchase of bonds. but qe has proved politically sensitive, prompting savage criticism from the republican hopefuls in next year's presidential race. so, in phase three the fed will try to bear down on long-term interest rates, the borrowing costs set in the financial markets, by buying longer-dated six- to 30-year bonds and selling short-dated bonds of three years or less. the aim of this policy is to raise the price of long-dated bonds, which in turn will reduce the yield or interest rate paid on them. lower bond yields equate to lower long-term borrowing costs for businesses and mortgage payers. america's economic troubles had their root in the housing market, and the fed is seeking to boost activity in real estate. will it work? it will probably do no harm, but long-term interest rates in the us are already extremely low, so it is hard to see how operation twist is going to make much difference to aggregate demand, particularly since households in the us are debt averse after the borrowing binge of the early 2000s. the immediate reaction on wall street was negative, with a sense that this was the act of a central bank desperately thrashing around for a solution to a barely growing economy drowning in negative equity and with unemployment above 9%. in the end, it may be that there are only two real solutions to america's deep-rooted problems. one is some form of debt amnesty for those households living in homes worth far less than they paid for them. the second is time, because if the past three years have proved anything, it is that there are no quick fixes to a crisis that was the result of both individuals and banks borrowing far too much.
stock markets and euro slide on greek debt fears europe's failure to resolve its spiralling debt crisis saw stock markets and the euro fall sharply on monday amid fears that greece, the country at the centre of the drama, was veering towards default. investors watched closely as a crucial teleconference between the greek finance minister and athens' international creditors got under way on monday night in a desperate bid by the cash-strapped nation to secure more funds to keep afloat. the greek finance minister, evangelos venizelos, said the talks, although inconclusive, were "productive and substantive" and he hoped a deal might be possible – sentiments that were enough to prompt a late comeback on the us stock markets. european stock markets were down heavily, with the ftse 100 closing down more than 100 points at 5259. the dow jones industrial average fell more than 200 points in afternoon trading amid warnings from the us treasury secretary, tim geithner, that the euro crisis was affecting american business confidence, but the dow gained about 100 points in the last hour. the oil price fell $2.20 to $85.76 in new york, while the euro dropped one point to $1.3586, approaching last week's seven-month low of $1.3495. there was further bad news when ratings agency standard & poor's cut italy's sovereign credit rating by a notch, saying that the country's economic growth prospects were getting weaker and that planned reforms by the government would not help much. s&p cut italy's rating to a/a-1 from a+/a-1+ and said the outlook for the rating was negative, meaning it could be cut further. at stake for greece is an €8bn (£7bn) rescue loan – the sixth instalment of a €110bn package granted in may 2010 – and a second bailout worth €109bn that the european union, european central bank (ecb) and international monetary fund (imf) also approved to prop up an economy viewed as insolvent. athens has admitted that, without the cash injection, it will be unable to pay public sector wages and pensions, deepening tensions with creditors and bringing it closer to default. before the start of the two-hour talks, venizelos insisted that the socialist government would faithfully implement cost-cutting policies prescribed by the country's "troika" of lenders, the eu, ecb and imf. "if we don't make such changes now, we will have to make them later in circumstances that will be possibly uncontrollable and much worse," venizelos told an economic conference attended by imf officials in athens. with lenders threatening to block further aid, a barrage of further austerity measures were to be the focus of the televised talks, according to greek media. the greek finance ministry said the emergency talks would be repeated on tuesday evening after "teams of technical experts in athens further elaborate on some data". international inspectors, who abruptly suspended a visit to athens three weeks ago in frustration over the emergence of budget shortfalls, had made clear they would not return until they were convinced the government was intent on pursuing reforms in return for aid. without implementation of measures that include the privatisation of state assets and deregulation of the labour market, eu officials believe neither greece's economy or culture will ever change. the budget deficit originally projected at 7.4% for this year is now expected to be nearer 10%.under unprecedented pressure during a meeting of eu finance ministers in poland at the weekend, the beleaguered government agreed to fast-track reforms – outlined in a contentious 'mid-term fiscal plan' passed by the athens parliament amid fierce protests in july – to make up for the gaping €2bn budget black hole. "every time we give them something, they give up," complained one eu observer following greece's fiscal progress."nothing has been done to implement the reform programme passed in july, which is why the economy is now in such difficulty." measures required to reduce the public deficit to a sustainable level will now almost certainly include mass layoffs in the 700,000-strong public sector, closure of inefficient state-owned entities, cutting pay and pensions and extra taxes on heating and diesel oil. once reclaimed from the public sector – long exploited for political patronage in a society reared on grace and favours – resources will be released into greece's under-developed private sector to help boost lagging levels of competitiveness. "the ball is in the greek court. implementation is of the essence," bob traa, the imf's permanent representative in athens, told the economic conference. about 50,000 civil servants are likely to be placed in a special "labour reserve" with lower pay in the coming weeks, with double that number laid off by 2015 if the policies are enforced as creditors want. the spectre of more austerity – after two years of continuous price rises, wage cuts, pension drops and tax increases – has been described by many greeks as a tipping point that will almost certainly unleash further social unrest. the country's powerful unions reacted last week to the news of a surprise new property tax – perhaps the most unpopular measure to date - by promising to take to the streets. "the measures will be much harder to pass now than they were two months ago," political analyst kostas panagopoulos said. "the government now has to do what it hasn't done [yet] in record time and people are not only frustrated, they are increasingly desperate. there will be unrest. we are closer to a social revolution in greece than ever before."
stock markets fall sharply ahead of greek debt crisis talks stock markets fell sharply on monday amid growing tensions over the eu's failure to resolve the greek debt crisis. european bank shares led the fallers, hours ahead of crucial talks that will help determine whether greece receives €8bn (£6.96bn) of funds it needs to stave off default. michael hewson, market analyst at cmc markets, said: "the lack of any headway at the ecofin weekend meeting in poland, along with a swift dismissal of advice from geithner, merely serves to highlight the simmering tensions among european politicians as they try to balance the competing demands of political unpopularity at home against the need to reassure financial markets." oil prices also slipped, with brent crude falling below $112 a barrel. gold, seen as a safe haven investment, strengthened. spot gold hit $1,824 an ounce. the greek government will continue its meeting after being told that the next tranche of the bailout, €8bn due at the end of the month, hinges on further belt-tightening. "the timing of a greek default remains in the hands of the troika and it is difficult to believe that they will decide to pull the plug at this stage because of the potential impact upon the other troubled sovereigns and the banking sector," said gary jenkins, head of fixed income at evolution securities. elsewhere, credit ratings agency moody's is expected to announce within a month whether it plans to downgrade italy's aa2 rating, a move that could escalate the european debt crisis, although standard & poor's already rates the country two notches lower at a+.
greek debt crisis: what the analysts say once again the markets have had their hopes dashed by the failure of eurozone politicians to bring to the table any new initiatives aimed at solving the european debt crisis. any excitement at friday's eurogroup meetings that the presence of the us treasury secretary, timothy geithner, could bring new direction was duly sunk and the euro has subsequently sunk back to below $1.37 levels. the "will they, won't they" debate over the potential for a greek debt default is back at the top of the market's agenda and today's conference call between the troika and greek officials over whether greece will qualify for the next €8bn instalment of its bailout will be followed closely. for most market participants, it is not a question of if greece will default but rather when and how. an orderly and managed default would have a less damaging impact than a messy one, which clearly has the potential to send shockwaves throughout europe's banking system. the timing of a greek default remains in the hands of the troika and it is difficult to believe that it will decide to pull the plug at this stage because of the potential impact on the other troubled nations and the banking sector. that said, who knows what contingency plans the troika has prepared behind closed doors (although the fact that they have leaked like a sieve throughout the crisis suggests we would have heard about them if they had…), and the day when all the ducks are lined up might be the day when support for greece is withdrawn. comments from the german finance minister that "membership in a monetary union is an opportunity, but also a heavy burden… the greeks must decide whether they want to bear this burden", might suggest that the endgame is nigh. the lack of any headway at the ecofin weekend meeting in poland, along with a swift dismissal of advice from timothy geithner, merely serves to highlight the simmering tensions among european politicians as they try to balance the competing demands of political unpopularity at home against the need to reassure financial markets. the decision by papandreou to delay his trip to the us this week highlights the concerns surrounding greece and further austerity measures demanded by the troika, which returns to athens on monday and is due to meet greek cabinet ministers to assess whether the new measures agreed will be enough to warrant the next tranche of bailout money. meanwhile in germany, angela merkel's government continues to lurch from one political problem to the next. the weekend's election defeat in berlin, which more or less wiped out merkel's fdp coalition partners, just adds to the uncertainty with regard to the german government's ability to reassure markets, at the same time as reassuring voters it is not signing blank cheques for greece, or anyone else.
europe's debt crisis prompts central banks to provide dollar liquidity fears of a deepening of europe's debt crisis have prompted the world's leading central banks to pump us dollars into the financial system, in a co-ordinated action designed to boost market confidence. the bank of england joined the us federal reserve, the european central bank, the swiss national bank and the bank of japan on thursday to announce that they would flood money markets with dollars over the coming months. the move, on the third anniversary of the collapse of the us investment bank lehman brothers, sent shares soaring in banks heavily exposed to debt default by greece and the other struggling members of the 17-nation eurozone. the euro, which had been falling in recent days, rebounded, rising roughly 1% in european trading on thursday. speaking in washington, christine lagarde, the president of the international monetary fund, said: "they [the banks] are getting together and acting together. to me, that is the most important message." lagarde warned that more action was needed. "we have entered into a dangerous phase of the crisis," she said. there is still a path to recovery, lagarde said, but it is a "narrow" one. under the terms of the deal, banks will be able to bid for unlimited amounts of us dollars at fixed interest rates in three separate auctions. the first of these will be on 12 october. nick parsons, head of strategy at national australia bank, said the decision to provide unlimited liquidity well into 2012 was a big show of support to the global banking system. the move comes as europe's finance ministers gather in wroclaw, poland, for a meeting of the economic and financial affairs council, known as ecofin. us treasury secretary tim geithner is set to address the meeting for the first time, and is expected to call for decisive action. putting further pressure on europe's finance ministers, the european commission cut its growth forecast for the euro area for the rest of they year. the commission predicted europe would barely avoid a double-dip recession, and that growth would come to a "virtual standstill" towards the end of the year. gus faucher, director of macroeconomics at moody's analytics, said the move to pump dollars into the system would help in the short term, but all eyes were still on the meeting of european finance ministers. "it's not a cure; it's a temporary palliative," said faucher. "the big question is: is this enough in the short term to get us to a longer term solution? there is a potential for a really huge financial crisis in europe. things are bad now, but they could get a lot worse." hedge fund billionaire george soros said the euro crisis looked "more intractable" than the 2008 financial crisis. writing in the new york review of books, soros said it was "imperative to prepare for the possibility of default and defection from the eurozone in the case of greece, portugal, and perhaps ireland." he said massive political changes were needed in europe, including the establshment of a european treasury, " to forestall a possible financial meltdown and another great depression." in london, the ftse 100 index closed up 110 points at 5337, over 2%. on wall street, the dow jones index gained even in the face of poor economic figures.
voices of finance: computer programmer at a trading company "i am an it guy with a strong background in maths. i have co-written the program for our high-frequency trading systems – 'the engine', as we call it. i come into the office around 7am, well before the stock market opens. my team and i need to check and double-check all our systems prior to trading. with so many trades taking place each day, it's important to ensure everything is accounted for correctly before and after trading. during the day our team monitors the engine as it buys and sells, thousands of times. lunch is 10 minutes, the time required to run across the street, grab a sandwich and get back. "compare the movements of shares on the stock market with waves. our company is like a surfer trying to spot a wave, ride it for a tiny moment and then get out again before it breaks. on any given day, our computers buy and sell shares tens of thousands of times, holding them for very short periods of time, sometimes even less than a minute. no human being, or collection of human beings, could do the volume of trades computers are doing at the moment at stock exchanges across the world. this is not stuff that was once done by humans and now taken over by computers. this is something new altogether. "we constantly check for bugs, disruptions or indications of incorrect activity. even if the engine misbehaved for just a second, the number of trades it could do in that time is enormous. thus it is important to monitor it as closely as possible. the mark of a good program is not just how it performs during normal operations, but also how it reacts to unexpected events. it is important to ensure that there are several layers of fail-safes built into the engine itself. "another natural safety valve is your collateral. when you buy stock on the exchange you need to have capital, obviously, to pay with. so suppose our computer goes nuts and embarks on a buying spree, it will automatically stop when our collateral runs out. "the day gets slightly more tense as we draw nearer to 4.30pm, when the market closes. once closed, any mistakes can't be corrected until the following trading day, so could end up being expensive. "real stress occurs when the machine does something unusual and you can't figure out whether it's an internal bug or something in the market. humility is essential for programmers like me. you must always assume something is your own fault. if you are arrogant and you tend to blame a bug on the outside world, it is likely you'll miss a bug of your own. "success in the business of high-frequency trading? one way is brute force. the faster your computer, the faster your program can act. we are talking about milliseconds here, so even the speed of light is significant. the other driver is the quality of the program itself. part of my work is constantly trying to improve it, make it work faster, more efficiently. "improvements in the program's logic can see the biggest gains. even if you use a bigger computer and speed up the code by 100%, it will never be as fast as if you didn't have to run that bit of code in the first place. this type of solution is the most satisfying. "and then there's the computer program itself, the black box that decides what and when to buy and sell. the key term here is correlations. we take all data from a subset of shares at the london stock exchange, the shares we have decided to trade in. this dataset is about 3gb, and it consists of each and every movement of the share that day. we call these movements 'ticks'. we analyse the patterns of these ticks for our subset of shares and seek out correlations. for example, when vodafone goes up, deutsche telekom probably will too, because they are in the same industry. that is a very crude correlation. our model has hundreds of variables, and every day we look for new patterns. "it is highly complicated stuff and it has nothing to do with analysing a particular company's value or strength. it is about historical patterns of trading which we project on to the future. "there are peculiar sides to this. one is a so-called black swan event, something entirely new, unforeseen and unprecedented that you couldn't have modelled for it – it's new so it could not logically have shown up in historical patterns. "another peculiar aspect is that there are more companies like ours, so when we analyse market movements we need to take into account the activities of those other companies and include these in our model. meanwhile the other companies are doing the same so you get into a 'they know that we know that they know' situation. "i have always loved maths, the precision and beauty of it. an answer is either right or wrong. so it's really very ironic for me to have ended up in this one area of maths that is all about correlations and approximations. no exactness here. but i don't care. i expect to make enough money to be out of this business in a few years. i think i would like to go back to university. i have become very interested in the humanities and philosophy. "i just feel incredibly lucky to be living now. what would i have been doing with my maths skills 100 years ago? or 100 years from now? this is exactly the right time in history to have these skills. and i have them."
voices of finance: research analyst at a primary brokerage firm at the research analyst's suggestion we're not meeting in some pub or coffee house, but in his office near london's bank station, at 7.30am. he is in his late 30s, tall and broad-shouldered, with a calm voice and gentle manners. he is wearing smart-casual clothes and had not shaved that morning. "one of the things i like about the financial sector, it's meritocratic. in some places it's difficult to make it unless you went to the right school, then oxford or cambridge. in finance, achievement is often measurable in cold numbers. young people can rise very, very quickly. the boardrooms of financial institutions are often really multicultural. compare that with many other sectors in industry and business. "this is my desk. three computer screens with news tickers and background graphs and figures, and, of course, market data. if a stock is moving up it's in green, down is red, neutral is white. there's a tv over there with business news, i have chatlines open with clients and contacts, there's the phone, of course, my colleagues sharing stuff – 'did you see gold at 1670?!' – all through the day. can you feel the adrenaline? "on workdays i get up well before 6am. in summer that's ok, but in winter i suffer. i get up and check the news. on my way to work i make sure to ride buses or overground trains so i can go online with my phone. once in the office i write my note to investors, which is my take on where the world economy is heading. that has to be out by 7.30am. in my notes i try to be short and to the point – clients receive over 300 emails a day, their attention span will never exceed a page. the best you can hope for is for people to read a few paragraphs. "for the rest of the day i update my note. you might see me as a sports commentator, with the markets being the match. except my analysis is directed at the coaches and players in the field, rather than the audience in the stadium. "there is an element of chivalry there, yes, as we can't force clients to use our brokerage service. and there's always the risk of other analysts recycling our work and passing it off as their own. "all of us here have worked at big banks, so we know what it's like there. it can be a pretty lonely life as a trader. you have specialised in one particular area, say the automobile industry, and that's your 'book'. but there may be only one of you with that book. maybe there's a junior helping you out, but that's it. our research is like a sounding board for clients, a second opinion. we pass out good ideas but also nuggets of insight that they can use to look good in front of their boss. "the primary selling point for our firm is that we don't take positions ourselves. banks provide research about markets and companies, but at the same time banks operate in these markets. for example, a trader at big bank x may have taken a position in corn options. after a few weeks, he wants to get out of that position. and then big bank x may be tempted to talk up corn options to their clients. some of the big american banks are known to have promoted investment products they knew were flawed. worse, they had even taken positions themselves where they stood to benefit if the products they were promoting failed. they were betting against their own advice. "it wasn't actual misleading, but they were certainly encouraging people to do things that were in the bank's interest rather than their own. "there is a real breakdown of trust within the financial sector these days. when some banks' names get mentioned, i hear people say: 'what? are you still talking to that bank at all?' "my working day ends when the markets close, though of course i have to follow world events insofar as they might impact the markets. my analysis specifically provides the macro view. i am not making statements on individual companies – there are whole teams of researchers for that elsewhere. i am going for the bird's eye view of the entire economy. for instance, i just sent out a note predicting that the swiss central bank would intervene in the market. what was great was that 15 minutes later, the swiss central bank did intervene. what was less great was that due to a misunderstanding my note didn't go out. had it gone out, you might say that i would have 'scored' with my clients, who would have noticed my prediction coming true – provided, of course, that they had read my note in the first place."
ftse suffers worst quarter since 2002 the fourth-worst quarterly fall since the ftse 100 index was formed in 1983 has wiped more than £212bn off the value of the uk's biggest companies since the start of july. the index lost 1.3%, about £18bn, to close at 5128.5 points yesterday. while uk investors and pension funds will be nursing heavy losses, other european countries have been hit even harder, with $1.2tn (£1tn) wiped off the value off europe's leading shares. the euro stox 50 index, which comprises europe's biggest companies, dropped 25% – the biggest fall since the height of the credit crisis in the wake of the collapse of lehman brothers in the fourth quarter of 2008. germany's dax index lost 25% of its value over the past three months – its biggest fall since 2002. europe's biggest economy has suffered from growing fears about the future of greece because it is on the hook for the biggest losses if athens defaults. there also signs that the country's economy has slowed sharply in recent months. italy's mib has lost 26.5% and spain's ibex 35 is off 17.5%. in france, the cac 40 has lost 25.1% between july and september. banks have been the biggest fallers, with germany's deutsche bank and commerzbank both down by more than 30%. in france, société générale lost 51%, its biggest quarterly loss ever, and bnp paribas has dropped more than 40%. the crisis of investor confidence has spread around the world, with the ftse all world index suffering a 13.4% fall, the worst since the height of the credit crisis in the fourth quarter of 2008. all three of the american stock indices have recorded double-digit quarterly drops for the first time since 2008. the dow lost 11%, the nasdaq fell 12% and the s&p 500 was down 13%. ronan carr, a european equity strategist at morgan stanley, warned that conditions would probably get worse before they got better. "you don't get a sustainable rally until either the growth outlook improves or you get substantial progress on the sovereign debt crisis," he said. "in the absence of either of those things, investors should remain cautious and defensive positioned." ed woolfitt, head of trading at galvan research, said: "i think if we break below that 4950 to 5000 mark, we're into what i would describe as no-man's land and vulnerable to freefall." however, rbs analysts said that the ftse 100 and dax falls both looked overcooked. the falls have also hit some of the world's leading hedge funds, which are often blamed for profiting from falling markets. the average fund has dropped by 4.5% in the third quarter, according to hedge fund research. john paulson, the american billionaire hedge fund manager who is betting on a global economic recovery by the end of next year, is reported to have suffered a disastrous month. in august, his flagship advantage plus fund plummeted 15%. man group, the world's biggest listed hedge fund, has doubled the number of planned job cuts by april next year to 400 as part of a cost-cutting drive. the move by the london-based fund comes after it announced a surprise $6bn drop in assets under management this week. man had previously intended to cut about 200 jobs as part of an efficiency drive following its takeover of the rival hedge fund glg partners last october. its shares have dropped 30% since its disappointing trading update on wednesday. kenneth heinz, president of hedge fund research, told the guardian that he expected the world's leading funds to report falls of about 2.5% in september, the biggest slide since may 2010.
education services company rm issues profit warning education services provider rm is planning to cut 300 jobs and sell off three businesses as cuts in government education spending led the group to announce a profits warning. the company, which has appointed former education minister lord adonis to the board, also said it would be slashing its dividend. rm will sell isis, a provider of classroom furniture; easytrace, a cashless catering system; and dacta, the european distributor for lego education products, as well as other minority shareholdings, in an attempt to become more focused. "regrettably, in order to establish rm on a sound platform for the future, the board has concluded that it also needs to engage in a consultation process with employees regarding proposed redundancies," rm added. staff numbers will reduce by 13%, meaning rm will get rid of 320 staff. directors will waive their bonuses as a result of the company's problems. the outlook for the company over the next year is bleak, rm said. "in both primary and secondary categories approximately 70% of schools are anticipating reductions in capital expenditure… in terms of it spending approximately 40% of both primary and secondary schools are expecting a reduction in the year ahead." the shares closed at 80p, 20% down on their wednesday closing price of 100p. they have fallen by more than half this year.
man group shares hit by $6bn drop in assets under management the admission along with a dip in the amount of funds managed by the firm caused shares in the world's largest listed hedge fund to slump by almost 25%, as analysts cut estimates and target prices for the company's shares. man said that much of the redemptions had come from its most liquid funds, which allow clients to cash-in investments in the shortest time period. following the start of the financial crisis in 2008, when some hedge funds implemented so-called "gates" which locked clients into funds, investor appetite has been for instant or near instant access to cash. there are some in the industry, however, who argue this trend has impacted hedge fund performance, as often it forces traders to be sellers of assets at poor prices. the redemptions, and the state of the financial markets, caused total assets under management to slip from $71bn at the end of june to $65bn. one hedge fund investor said: "man group is absolutely massive. but is it going to get much bigger? probably not. the chances are that it has ex-growth and it is much more likely that we will see a semi-cyclical business in terms of assets under management." man shares fell 59.6p to 180p, their lowest level since early 2009. credit suisse said a combination of lower assets under management and performance fees had prompted it to cut its pretax profit forecasts by 27% to $332m for the nine months to the end of this year. however, the broker retained its "outperform" rating on the shares because of the recent performance of man's star ahl fund, which the broker said should help attract funds in the medium term. man group has been well supported during 2011 by city analyst cheerleaders who have advised their clients to buy its shares. among those who remain positive despite the setback is broker killik & co, which retained its "buy" stance while admitting that the trading update was "clearly disappointing". in a note to clients, the broker said: "although part of this is profit taking following a strong run-up in the shares over the past six weeks, it is also a reflection of weak trading. however, we are maintaining our positive stance."
europe to clamp down on commodity speculators city minister mark hoban has already made clear that the uk will not tolerate protectionist measures from brussels. elements of mifid, though, could be welcomed in some quarters. for instance, the directive may adopt a proposal – popular in france – to limit the size of positions that traders can take when buying and selling futures contracts on commodities in an attempt to restrict the impact on prices of items as diverse as wheat, coffee or gold. mifid, which was first implemented four years ago to open up financial markets across the eu to competition, may also attempt to push the trading of derivatives products that currently takes place "over the counter" onto regulated exchanges or through clearing houses in an effort to reduce risk. but it will take time. once the draft is published, the horse-trading will begin – and could last another four years, with mifid ii finally being implemented in 2015.
goldman sachs reports third quarter loss of $393m goldman sachs reported its second quarterly loss since going public in 1999 as the turmoil in europe and washington took its toll on the investment bank. goldman's third-quarter net loss of $393m (£249m), or 84 cents a share, compared with a profit of $1.9bn, or $2.98 a share, a year earlier. on a pre-tax basis, the bank lost $730m. revenues were $3.59bn, down 60%. analysts' average forecasts had been predicting revenues of $4.78bn for the quarter. the bank set aside $1.58bn to compensate staff, 59% lower than the third quarter of 2010, but a higher proportion of goldman's revenue at 44% compared with 36% in 2009, the lowest ever level. so far this year goldman has set aside more than $10bn for compensation, down 24% from the same period a year ago, and its workforce has fallen by 3% to 34,200. the compensation expense was equivalent to $292,836 for each of the company's workers employed as of 30 september. over the quarter goldman made 1,300 employees redundant, about 4% of its headcount. a year earlier the company employed 35,400 people, who shared about $13.1bn, or $370,706 each. bank of america posted a pre-tax profit of $6.2bn, up from a loss of $7.3bn a year ago. but much of the profit was derived from the sale of $3.6bn of shares in china construction bank, plus a $4.5bn gain from accounting adjustments due to boa's own debt having become riskier. bank of america shares have more than halved this year as it has struggled to clear itself from the legacy of the sub-prime crisis. christopher wheeler, banks analyst at mediobanca securities, said: "when you look at all the numbers [from the us banks], the market is expecting a fall in revenue in fixed income of 30%, 15% to 20% in equities, and 25% to 45% in investment banking. "clearly the third quarter is going to be a lot weaker [for european investment banks]," said wheeler, who noted some of the downturn might be negated by the accounting benefit from the falling value of banks' debt, which helps bolster profits under accounting rules. goldman's loss was its first since december 2008 at the height of the financial crisis when the bank posted a fourth-quarter loss of $2.12bn. lloyd blankfein, goldman chairman and chief executive, said: "ceo and investor confidence as well as asset prices across markets were lower in the third quarter, given the uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions. our results were significantly impacted by the environment and we were disappointed to record a loss in the quarter. "however, we believe the strength of both our client franchise and our balance sheet positions us well for when economies and markets improve." goldman's trading division suffered, with fixed-income, currency and commodity revenue falling 36%. the bank is still top rated for mergers and acquisitions but even so its investment banking business fell by a third. net revenues in investment banking were $781m, 33% lower than the third quarter of 2010 and 46% lower than the second quarter of 2011. net revenues in its financial advisory business were $523m, up slightly from the third quarter of 2010, while revenues in the firm's underwriting business were $258m, 61% lower than the third quarter of last year. net revenues in both equity underwriting and debt underwriting were also significantly lower than the same period last year. the bank suffered a loss of $2.48bn in its investing and lending group, including a $1.05bn hit on its private equity investment in the industrial and commercial bank of china. icbc stock collapsed over the quarter. in a conference call, david viniar, goldman's chief financial officer, said it was too early to say when this period of volatility in global markets would come to an end. "last week there was a big market rally; yesterday there was a big market decline," he said.
it's pregnancy, stupid! and other truths about boardroom diversity however, i suspect that while there may be some unfair practice and prejudice, sometimes there just might not be the numbers and, at times, the talent available within the female pool. this is in some part shown by the number of recent appointments with little experience quoted by professor vinnicombe in your article. to be a successful business person, you must be what i describe as "racing fit" – intellectually and physically sharp enough to constantly think on your feet; able to get up at the crack of dawn each day; be prepared to be flexible with your diary and travel arrangements; and also have the ability to keep delivering work that is fresh and dynamic. sometimes women are not able to fulfil all these obligations because of family commitments. however, the picture is not all doom and gloom, and there are signs that a new generation of female leaders will find taking seats on boards an easier prospect than their predecessors. recent research from the chartered management institute shows that junior female executives today can expect to earn the same as their male colleagues. despite the fact that the average gender pay gap across all seniority levels remains substantial, it is our hope that this younger female generation will grow up knowing, expecting and experiencing gender equality as they climb the career ladder. lord davies called for the code to require companies to establish a policy on boardroom diversity that would include "measurable objectives" and to report annually on progress made in achieving the objectives. any company not complying would therefore have had to explain why. the frc version, however, merely requires boards to describe their diversity policy and their progress on "any" measurable objectives. so boards will now be free to set no objectives, without explanation.
company dividends soar 16% in a year western governments may be sinking under a mountain of debt, but many of britain's largest companies are flush with cash and can afford to pay generous dividends to shareholders. uk dividends topped £20bn in the third quarter, the first time that figure has been reached since april 2008. payouts have jumped 15.9% in a year, according to capita registrars. banks are still struggling, but many london-based multinationals, from mining groups to drinks and luxury goods companies, have boosted their dividends, despite fears of a global slump. in part, companies' willingness to part with their cash is due to their reluctance to write cheques to fund expansion at a time of macroeconomic uncertainty. at the same time, investors are pressing for bigger payouts as income-producing shares are a boon during a period when they cannot bank on rising equity values. capita, which analysed figures provided by exchange data international, said £55bn was distributed to shareholders in the first nine months of 2011. that was just shy of the total payout for the whole of 2010. growth was strong enough to lead capita to increase its forecast for 2011 by £1bn to £67bn, £10.6bn more than 2010. that would be an increase of 18% and the highest annual total since 2008. even after adjusting for the distorting effect of bp restoring its dividend and for some other one-off factors, dividends for the year will still grow a healthy 11%. the prospective equity yield for 2011 is 3.8%, up from 3.6% in july; equity yields represent an unprecedented spread over bonds of 1.4 percentage points. charles cryer, capita registrars' chief executive, said: "in real terms, dividends still have some way to go to top previous highs, but investors will be grateful that at least one asset class is providing a solid, inflation-proof income. "but risks to capital are great, and the market may be judging that earnings, and therefore dividends, are vulnerable to a renewed economic slowdown. the jury is out on whether dividends can sustain this momentum next year." big company stocks exceeded the dividend growth of the mid-tier for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2009. dividends from ftse-100 companies increased 17%, almost twice the 9% from the ftse-250. even after adjusting for distortions such as bp, the growth was still slightly higher from britain's largest companies. for the first time since capita began the research, all sectors increased their dividends in the third quarter (after distorting factors are eliminated). cyclical sectors such as industrial companies and commodities significantly outperformed defensive sectors, increasing their dividends by 23% compared to the more modest (but more reliable) 10% increase from companies whose earnings vary less dramatically over the cycle – such as telecoms and tobacco. the arrival of mining group glencore on the stock exchange provided £224m for its shareholders, but other mining stocks paid an additional £200m between them, making miners one of the best performing sectors. together, mining stocks have doubled their distribution in the first nine months from £2bn in 2009 to £4.1bn this year.
homeserve value falls £450m over mis-selling fears home repairs group homeserve saw £450m wiped off its market value as investors deserted the firm amid fears its call centre staff have been mis-selling its products. the west midlands-based firm, which insures three million people in the uk against burst pipes, broken down boilers and electrical problems, took the highly unusual step of suspending its entire sales operation over the weekend following an internal review by accountants deloitte. the company said inbound sales and marketing calls will resume on tuesday, but its sales staff will not be making business-generating outbound calls for a further "five to six weeks". homeserve took the dramatic action after its review found cases where sales processes did not meet required standards. as a result homeserve will now retrain nearly 500 call centre staff at its walsall base. while it gave no details on how many customers may have been affected by the problems, which are understood to relate to the scripts used by sales people to explain pricing and policy details, and whether they could have misled customers. chief executive richard harpin said: "we are determined to ensure customers receive the highest standards of service and we have therefore taken swift action to address the issues identified by our review. we have commenced a programme to retrain staff. we will resume marketing once we are confident that our sales processes meet the standards that we and our customers expect." homeserve's travails will be a personal blow to the helicopter flying harpin, who hit the headlines in 2010 when he put up £50,000 to launch a new entrepreneur badge with the scout association. a year ago he pocketed £66m when he sold a third of his shares in homeserve, the company he founded back in 1993. the financial services authority has been informed of the current problems and is expected to launch an investigation, which could mean a large fine for homeserve if it is found to have breached rules for selling financial products. it could also be forced to pay compensation to customers if it is found they were mis-sold policies. it is not the first time the company has found itself in hot water. the bad weather last winter took its toll on the operation a led to customers complaining of poor or non-existent service. many were left without heating in sub-zero temperatures when their boilers broke down, and the company failed to send a plumber. in july, the telecoms regulator ofcom revealed it was investigating homeserve for breaching its rules around silent and abandoned calls. the firm was told its actions could lead to a fine of up to £2m. homeserve said on monday that it expects to meet its market expectations for the year to march, but analysts warned a lack of sales this winter will impact the results for the following year. henry carver, at broker peel hunt, said the autumn/winter period to march is key for winning new customers and no sales growth in the uk during this period will hit profits in 2013. he added there could be some reputational knock-on effect. others questioned whether homeserve was set to become the next cpp. the credit-card insurer remains more than 50% down on where it was before revealing in march that it was being investigated by the financial services authority over suspected problems with its sales calls.
mf group's trading roots stretch back two centuries in the same year that britain formally recognised the independence of the united states – 1783 – james man founded a sugar brokerage in the city of london. the troubled business was spun out of what was to become man group in 2007 – and while all ownership ties were severed by 2009 – the mf global group can still trace its roots back to 18th-century london. after setting up as a sugar broker, man began to trade a range of commodities such as coffee and cocoa. by 1869, it was known as ed & f man. it largely stuck to the business of storing and shipping commodities around the world until the 1980s when it expanded into broking financial products and set up its own fund management arm. the focus soon shifted to the financial markets and in 2000 it spun off the ed & f commodities business to focus on financial broking, fund management and hedge funds. the name was changed to man group, which floated on the london stock market the following year and entered the ftse 100 index of blue-chip stocks. the financial broking arm, man financial, was not sold off until 2007 to enable the group to focus on its rapidly expanding hedge fund business. shortly after mf global, as the broking group came to be known, was floated on the new york stock exchange, a wheat trading scandal forced the group to sell a $300m stake to the private equity investment firm jc flowers, which still has a representative on the board. the group operated under the slogan of "relentless pursuit of market opportunity" and it is that relentless pursuit – through a risky foray into the european bond market – that has proved to be its undoing.
disability charity scope launches a new bond to raise £20m scope, the disability charity, is to break new – and potentially controversial – ground by launching a £20m bond programme this week to create new source of funds for its activities. it will be one of the first uk charities to enter the capital markets, this one through a tie-up with the bank of new york mellon corporation, which it believes could provide a template for others to follow. the scope bond programme will list on the luxembourg-based euro mtf stock market and follows last year's launch of the grangewood venture philanthropy project where outside investors were brought in to finance the construction of homes for people with multiple disabilities. "the major cash investment that we hope to generate through the scope bond programme has the potential to transform the support we can provide to disabled people," said richard hawkes, chief executive of scope. "it gives us the opportunity to talk to a new and emerging network of prospective supporters and offer them an additional way of investing in scope alongside traditional donations and philanthropic loans. this is a landmark development for scope and could revolutionise the way we and other large charities raise finance for our work in the future." scope says the bonds which will be aimed at attracting high net worth individuals and larger institutions rather than small retail investors. it also dismisses fears that city-style financing of charitable bodies could undermine the image of scope or lead it into debt. "this allows us to accelerate the work we already do and will allow investors to put their money into an investment with clear social benefits and not just financial returns," explained scope finance director geetha rabindrakumar. the scope programme will operate in the same way as similar corporate bond products although the rate of return or "coupon" is likely to be lower. scope will have the flexibility to issue sterling bond tranches at varying nominal amounts, maturity dates and coupon rates under the programme. scope reports income of more than £100m a year with £23m of that coming from its network of charity shops, £15m from traditional donations and the rest from providing services to the public sector. about 3,000 people are employed by scope which made a surplus of £4m in 2010.
italy the key to whether euro rescue plan will work silvio berlusconi, italy's embattled prime minister, attacked the euro as a "currency that has not convinced anyone" after interest rates on italy's massive national debt rose to their highest levels since the single currency was launched. as doubts started to emerge about the "grand plan" to save the euro, investors demanded a high price to buy the country's bonds in a show of no confidence barely 48 hours after europe's leaders had agreed a new rescue blueprint for the eurozone. "there is an attack on the euro which, as a currency, has not convinced anyone, because it does not belong to any one country, but to lots that do not, however, have a single government, nor a bank of reference and guarantees," berlusconi said on friday night. the tv mogul who leads the italian right said: "the euro is an unprecedented phenomenon. that's why there's a speculative attack and [why] it is also turning out to be difficult to place sovereign bonds [in the market]." the price italy paid – more than 6% – to sell 10-year bonds alarmed financial experts who say the country's borrowing costs are one key measure of success for the euro rescue package, which was designed to shore up confidence in the eurozone's third largest economy. italy is also the eurozone's largest bond market. elisabeth afseth, bonds expert at evolution, said: "it hasn't been easy to convince investors to buy italian bonds yet. [the rescue package] was created with italy in mind yet bond yields are back at 6% for 10 years which is an uncomfortable level. i don't think this has given investors much comfort so far. italy is the key for whether this works or not. i don't think it's looking overly promising at this stage." hopes of an immediate cash injection from china into europe's €1 trillion (£879bn) european financial stability facility (efsf) were also dashed after klaus regling, the head of the bailout, left a meeting in beijing without a firm offer of support. "we all know china has a particular need to invest surpluses," regling said in a reference to the country's $3.2tn foreign exchange reserves. but doubts are emerging about whether the chinese will be prepared to take the risk of putting billions of euros into the fund. the rise in italy's borrowing costs briefly took the shine off stock markets, which recovered some ground later, leaving wall street's standard & poor's 500 index on course for its best month since october 1974. the dow jones industrial average, the biggest index of us stock prices, has soared over 1200 points this month, breaking a record set in april 1999. jamie farmer, executive director at dow jones indexes, said the mood had improved. "recently there have been two significant narratives. first that the us was entering a second recession and second that the eurozone was falling apart," he said. "people have taken a big deep breath. there seems to be a resolution to the euro crisis, while there is a difference of opinion on the strength of the package, confidence is picking up." after thursday's euphoria, the ftse 100 index fell 11.5 to end at 5702 as doubts surfaced about the eurozone rescue plan. the french continued to place their hopes in investment from china to bolster the efsf, which needs outside investors to increase its size from its current €440bn. the french finance minister, francois baroin, told french radio: "the reality is that china is the third largest shareholder in the international monetary fund, and if china via the imf wants to participate, not by saving greece or the euro, but by participating in investment, that is a gesture of confidence. "what is happening in europe and creating instability is that public and private investors are pulling out." chris leslie, the shadow financial secretary to the treasury, used the runup to the g20 meeting in cannes next week to call on the coalition to back a financial transaction tax "implemented with the widest possible international agreement".
eu debt crisis averted, but italy suffers bond auction hangover the country's 10-year borrowing costs topped 6%. it's the worst interest rate of any eurozone member (apart from greece, portugal and ireland) and puts italy at the top of any list of defaulters. listening to nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel in the early hours of thursday morning you would think, with disaster averted, investors should be prepared to offer loans to italy at cheaper rates. it is enough to make italian finance minister guilio tremonti despair. he is under pressure to bring down borrowing costs because a country that has registered a sub-1% average annual rate of growth for the last decade cannot afford a 6% interest bill for long. tremonti is a wily character who has worked hard to lengthen the maturity of italian debt to make sure it needs refinancing less often. he has also limited his government's annual overspend to less than most of his european counterparts. however, his tactical nous cannot make up for a lack of reforms to longer-dated problems, such as pensions, and the government's reliance on the savings of an italian public that doesn't save as much as it used to. as with the japanese, italians have preferred to lend their governments money in preference to paying higher taxes. a loan to the government pays an annual interest rate. taxes are just money down the drain. the result of this thinking is a highly indebted government that now struggles to pay the interest as limits on welfare spending have discouraged women to give birth. rome must also borrow more from international investors now that the country's ageing population is spending more and saving less. two prominent italian academics who believe politicians have dodged key reforms that could stabilise the country's finances and promote growth are pietro reichlin, a professor of economics and head of research at luiss university in rome, and giuseppe ragusa an economics professor at the same institution. the pair argue that italians should be thankful the credit ratings agencies turned their attention from athens to rome. without reforms now, the situation would only worsen and force a more dramatic correction at a later date. "italy is a victim of the greek crisis and the poor construction of the euro area, but at the same time we have a problem of low growth that needs to be tackled. lower taxes on wages, higher taxes on wealth, pension reforms and an end to labour laws that give total job protection to workers in medium-sized and large corporations." reforms that margaret thatcher championed are also on their list, including an attack on the professions and a liberalising of shop opening hours. lawyers, architects, doctors, they all live in protected bubbles say the professors. the tax system is a joke and is so complicated and anachronistic it encourages the already bloated hidden economy to get bigger. politicians are often blamed, especially prime minister silvio berlusconi. the professors have little good to say about the domestic political system that encourages small coalition partners to keep berlusconi in power, to save their own sets in parliament. more fundamentally, they point to the real power behind the thrown. according to reichlin, the most powerful business group in italy is the association of retailers. "the equivalent of britain's cbi is much weaker," he says. it means that tremonti is under pressure to maintain restrictive practices by a conservative lobby group that likes things just the way they are.
obama: eurozone deal has calmed global markets - video source: reuters prime minister believes britain needs to be careful amid fears that euro countries will join forces to impose will on rest of eu
voices of finance: the institutional stockbroker she is a very elegant and cheerful woman in her early 40s who is prevented by her employer from speaking to the press "on pain of death". so she requested no more details about herself be included.  "i know that my work adds value to society. at the end of the day, people want and need jobs. for promising companies to grow and create new jobs, they need a lot of capital. as a stockbroker i help investors find those good companies – preventing capital from being wasted on companies that won't grow. there is now this "us and them" attitude towards the financial sector. people need to understand that we are essential to their pensions and lives; they can't just get rid of us and expect everything to work fine without us. "i am not convinced by unfettered, free-market capitalism. i am in favour of a tax on financial transactions, and for more regulation. i think that we in the financial sector make too much money. having said that, i worry that people blame this financial crisis entirely on the banks. every person who took out credit or a mortgage that was too large, everyone who lived beyond their means, they all contributed to the crisis. banks played a role, there are some really bad practices in finance – hence the need for more regulation. but people need to look at themselves, too. perhaps that's what fuels part of the rage at the banks; by pinning all the blame on bankers, people indirectly exonerate themselves. "how my job works. you have so-called 'institutional' asset fund managers who invest money given to them by pension funds etc. this is mostly money from ordinary people. your isas, your unit trusts, your pension money – this is where it goes, into these companies who look after it for you. where are they going to put all that money? which countries, which sector in those countries, which companies in that sector? there are a lot of decisions a fund manager has to make. i help them make them and they pay me for that advice. "my firm has analysts in all the countries we deal with. the analysts look at different companies and make forecasts of how well they are going to do. they write reports, which get sent to me. i decide which ones are the most appropriate for each of my fund manager clients. i know that some of my clients like long-term ideas – when our analysts believe a particular company's stock will rise over the next few years. other clients are more short term, interested in stocks likely to go up in a period of, say, six weeks. what makes you good as a stockbroker is in part knowing which idea from your analysts to pass on to which of your clients. "a typical working day. we have a meeting every morning at 7.15am, for which you have to come prepared. so i start half an hour earlier, at the latest. i am specialised in a country, so i call our office there, look at the movements on their stock market, read any new research, go over the relevant news. in the 7.15am meeting each of our specialists give the rest a short briefing on their country. "i go back to my desk, fully briefed on the areas we are active in, and everything hits at once. i start calling clients with advice on a stock; another client might call with a question about a totally different stock – i need to be able to answer a lot of this off the top of my head, but they can ask about almost anything. another client emails with a factual question about my country, for instance, what's the number of car ownership? next a client enquires about a research trip to 'my' country, and which companies to include. meanwhile my secretary comes in with the draft of a letter, on which i spot a mistake so i send her back to correct it, making a mental note to check again. it goes on like this all day. "the reason is, this job is not only about stocks. it is also about client management, and part of that is organising research meetings, trips and conferences; executives of companies coming over the uk. my clients going over there, conferences either there or here … "this means visas and invitation letters and transport and accommodation and translation and scheduling … i don't have to organise these things myself, but i do need to stay on top of them. because if something goes wrong, i get the blame. it's my client; i'm the person in the firm they know. can you imagine, a client of yours shows up somewhere to visit a company, and someone has forgotten that nobody there speaks english and we should have arranged an interpreter? or it's the wrong day and nobody is there… that client will never do business with you again because you've wasted their time and made them look stupid. "with conferences, sometimes in the uk, sometimes in another country, it's the same set of logistical and planning issues but then on a multiple scale. sometimes i accompany a company executive from my country of specialisation on a tour here in the uk. typically, this executive will see eight investors in a row, each time giving almost exactly the same presentation. seriously, after sitting through a few of those, i can give that presentation for him. in fact the other day, this happened. the executive was really hungry so in the end he had something to eat while i did part of his talk for him. "multitasking. that's the thing you have to be really good at in this job,which makes it all the more surprising that there aren't more women around, as we are generally better at this. you have to be intelligent, of course. this image of stockbrokers as boys shouting 'buy' or 'sell' the whole time is wholly misleading. i don't deal with anyone who shouts 'buy' or 'sell'. my clients are extremely cerebral. very well educated, having taken extremely difficult professional exams. i can't just call them and shout 'buy this stock'. it's ridiculous. i need to give them very good reasons, why this company rather than others in the sector, why that sector over others, why this market rather than other market in the region, why this region? "so one minute i am talking stocks, the next i am looking at a schedule for a visiting clients, the next i am answering a client's email … if you could see how many emails drafting i have open on my screen, it's insane. often at the end of the day i find i have forgotten to send them. written the whole thing but simply too distracted to hit 'send'. my to-do list falls off the bottom of my screen. and then there are the instant messages popping up in your face. i have two screens but there are colleagues with three, four or even five … "there's never closure in this line of work, so it's less rewarding than other jobs. you are endlessly completing little tasks but there's always more. this is why i enjoy volunteering work so much, and my hobbies. some stockbrokers do a lot of 'client entertainment', taking out clients for luxurious outings in exchange for business the next day. my first boss said: never buy business. it only works in good times, when things are tough your clients will only stay with you if your performance is good. in hard times they need to shape up, and they'll look to those brokers who actually help them get good returns. "i do a little of evening entertainment. perhaps to the ballet, theatre. in the old days clients would be taken to a formula one weekend in monaco … that could easily come to 20k in costs, which you'd recoup in business directed your way afterwards. this is now very much a thing of the past. "there are such strict regulations. some of my clients can hardly be taken out to lunch these days. if they accept anything bigger, their company has to make an equivalent donation to charity. so when i take them to, say, a chocolate workshop, they end up having to ask me how much it cost. "i have no clear stance on affirmative action. there's research suggesting that markets are more stable when not fuelled by testosterone. so markets with women working there, markets with older men – who have less testosterone in them, they function better. on principle, it would be good to have more women in this industry. "i have sat on female recruitment committees but i warn them; this is not an easy place to work. the simple fact is that fewer women want this lifestyle than men. this job changes you. you need to become aggressive, decisive, develop leadership qualities. think of women in a restaurant staring at the menu, unable to choose? in this industry that gets bashed out of you. in an industry as driven as this one it is unrealistic to expect that as many women will be prepared to do this to the same standards as men. women, quite rightly, often have other priorities. at the end of the day if a man is more committed to the job, puts in more hours and effort, then he is going to be more successful. "if you want to last in this industry, you need to behave like a man. there's very little space for you to behave differently. maybe that will change but currently with over 80% of the senior people around be being male, you still have to conform to their norms. "i avoid dating bankers, for the simple reason that most of them are simply very boring. they have nothing to talk about outside work. what do they do when they're off? sit in fancy restaurants, stare at their porsches, stare at people staring at their porsches? ha ha, here i am, full of stereotypes. but the reality is that our job is stressful and tiring, with long hours (it's unusual to work less than an 11-hour day anywhere in the city), and many people don't have the energy to do much else. "it can be a problem in the dating scene, to work in finance. i am on a dating website and men have told me that i have the most challenging profile they have ever seen. this job brings a lot of different experiences. i travel, i meet fascinating people, i constantly have to learn new things to judge investment potential. i can talk knowledgeably about pig farms, about the dynamics in growing square watermelons, but also about how e-ink works in the kindle. "that's what this job gives me, plus financial independence. my last boyfriend was very insecure about my house, i mean my houses. he felt he should be the one providing. what am i supposed to do? give my house away? men like to be more successful. and maybe women like their man to be more successful. "when i was younger i was very pretty and my boss at the time was really worried i would get stereotyped as a broker who got ahead because of their looks. so i could wear only black, grey and navy blue suits to work. no short skirts. one time i came in wearing forest green and was actually told off. i always wore tights, conformed entirely to the image, all in order to be taken seriously. you had to fit the men's mould. it's changing a bit now. and i am no longer a young thing so i can finally dress like one. i don't have to prove anything anymore. "i had two really bad experiences, many years ago, with sexism. one was that on the trading floor of one company, the men would chew paper into little papier mache balls and then try to shoot them up my skirt. so they'd actually reach into the aisle to throw them. if this happened now, you could sue. those times were different. "the other time was at another company when there were these persistent and totally unfounded rumours that i was sleeping with the ceo. i just couldn't quash it. i was friendly with him, he was old enough to be my father, nothing more. there'd be a rumour, say, that we'd been off for a weekend to hawaii. i mean, it makes no sense to go to hawaii for a weekend, it's too far away, but no matter. no one would take me seriously anymore, and i had to leave the company. this is 15 years ago, if this happened today, i could have sued. then again, if you sue you might prejudice your future prospects for employment. that company was just horrible. the way men there talked about their wives and their spending on credit cards. it was so derogatory. "these days, we may be going over to the other side of the spectrum. political correctness can get pretty ridiculous. when i came into the office with a new haircut, my female colleague said: wow, you look great. and then turning to my boss, who is a man: doesn't she look great? and my boss goes: well, i really can't say. so my colleagues say: come on, don't be ridiculous, she looks great. and my boss says: look, i really can't say… er, but yes, she does. my male colleagues know that i can sue them. that means some innocent banter gets lost. that's a shame. "my salary? i prefer to keep that to myself but as i said, i think it's too much. i have an unusual set of skills, it's true, but there must be other people out there who can do this too. why do we manage to pay ourselves so much? i think it's simply that there's so much money floating around that if you take a little bit from the top, no one notices. i have some friends who are in similarly demanding jobs as i am, outside finance. they make half or even maybe a third of what i make. "we work very hard in finance, but i still have a lot of connections with the world outside though my charity and volunteer work. if i look at some of the people i do volunteer work with… i am 10 times as efficient as they are. decisions are made, quickly, and acted upon. still, we are overpaid. i mean, if they pay me this amount, if this is what my peers get, then i am gonna take it too. i'm not stupid.
global markets soar on heels of eurozone debt deal global stocks markets soared on news of a breakthrough in europe's debt crisis and signs that the us economy is on track for recovery. the dow jones industrial average closed up 340 points as it approached what could be its largest monthly gain in 25 years. in london earlier the ft-se 100 closed up 160.6 points, or 2.9%, at 5713.8, a three-month high and germany's dax surged 5.4%. investors were cheered by news that european leaders had agreed with banks to half greece's debts and strengthen the banking system. president barack obama welcomed the news from brussels where european leaders had worked late into the night to begin structuring a solution to the continent's debt crisis. "we welcome the important decisions made last night by the european union which lay a critical foundation for a comprehensive solution to the eurozone crisis," he said. "we look forward to the full development and rapid implementation of their plan. we will continue to support the eu and our european allies in their efforts to address this crisis as we work together to sustain the global recovery and put our people back to work." stock markets were also buoyed by the latest news on the us economy, which showed modest recovery over the summer as consumers and businesses boosted spending. gross domestic product (gdp), the broadest measure of all the goods and services produced in an economy, grew 2.5% in the third quarter, its strongest rise in a year and up from 1.3% in the second quarter. the performance is also a considerable improvement on the paltry 0.4% growth achieved in the first quarter of 2011. the latest figures from the commerce department came as the us reported a drop in unemployment benefits claims last week, although unemployment remains high and the latest measures of consumer confidence have hit lows unseen since the depths of the recession. the third quarter gdp figures show consumer spent more on durable goods like cars and refrigerators and business investment surged in the third quarter. real personal consumption increased 2.4% in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 0.7% in the second. durable goods increased 4.1%, in contrast to a decrease of 5.3%. sebastian mallaby, director of the maurice r. greenberg center for geoeconomic studies and at the council of foreign relations. said he was puzzled by the positive reactions of the european and us stock markets to the news from brussels. "the debate is moving toward a better recognition of what needs to be done but the debate is not moving toward having an answer. we recognise the problem but we don't have a solution. i find it hard to understand why the markets would rally in the face of that," he said. david semmens, us economist at standard chartered said the components of the latest gdp figures were better than expected but "we would look for more momentum from business investment and consumer spending before getting too carried away."
sec investigates allegations that avon reps bribed foreign officials the us financial watchdog is investigating whether avon reps bribed foreign officials, the cosmetics company has disclosed. the admission follows a two-year internal investigation that has so far cost more than $150m (£93m). the firm and us authorities are investigating allegations that avon representatives spent millions bribing officials in china and latin america. legal experts said the formal investigation could land avon with a potentially huge bill. the company disclosed in a regulatory filing that "a formal order of investigation" by the securities and exchange commission was under way, under the foreign corrupt practices act. the fcpa makes it illegal for representatives of us firms to bribe foreign officials. the sec, the us's top financial watchdog, is also investigating whether avon improperly disclosed information to analysts and other members of the financial community in 2010 and 2011, the company said. these woes came as avon announced it would miss its revenue target and said it is re-evaluating its long-range business plan. profit fell $164.2m from $166.7m a year earlier, as revenue rose 5.7% to $2.76bn. jung was challenged by an increasingly sceptical analyst community on a conference call. "why should investors believe management and the board have any control over the business at this point?" asked mark astrachan of stifel nicolaus. "look, the buck stops with me," replied jung. butler university law professor mike koehler said the likely eventual cost of an fcpa action against avon could be very high. the costs in an fcpa fine are related to the amount of business a us firm won as a result of the bribes its executives paid officials. "this isn't a company selling fighter jets," said koehler. "but avon struggled to get into the chinese market and if it is seen that the bribes were related to that entry, the whole of the chinese market could be taken into account." us authorities have become increasingly aggressive in fcpa actions. in 2004 the department of justice charged only two people under the act, collecting criminal fines of roughly $11m. in 2010 more than 80 fcpa cases were resolved or started, and fines topped $1.5bn.
voices of finance: partner at a major accountancy firm we meet at 8.15 in the morning, at a coffee bar near the school where she has just dropped off her children. "you can recognise me by a big black bag on my shoulder, as i am off to the airport later," she wrote in an email. originally from north america, she is a slender woman in her early 40s, well dressed in a casual sort of way. she orders a coffee. "people have no idea just how complex the computer systems at banks have become. and i say, 'systems' plural. not only has each bank its own systems, the same is true for divisions within most banks. these systems have evolved over the years, step by step, so it's one addition on top of another. it's a vast network and few people have the full picture. "i work in an accountancy firm. the funny thing is that we are seen as boring people – 'bean counters'. the truth is that to do my job well, i have to be a really cynical sherlock holmes. "we do a lot of interrogations when we believe something doesn't add up. you're like a detective almost, sniffing out suspect leads. the trick is to be deeply cynical, never trust anybody. what happens a lot is that we come across a number or issue that can't be right, and then we are fed a 'theory' why it really is right. so we demand proof, go talk to other people in and outside the organisation; external proof is always best. i have developed an antenna for people who don't have a firm grip on what's going on in their department. they are the enablers, they are innocent themselves but their incompetence allows others to hide things. how you can tell if somebody knows his stuff? go into detail. if somebody speaks about processes in very general and abstract terms only, that's a red flag. "not everyone realises how many layers of control have been installed on trading floors to prevent fraud. there's the front office where the traders actually execute the trade. there's risk management that looks at the risks taken by traders and whether the bank can handle these. there are 'operations', the people settling the trade and sending confirmation to buyer and seller. there's the system designed for us, the accountants, to keep track of everything, and there's the regulatory reporting – the regulators also need to know what's being done. "how do things still go wrong? i need to get a little technical, to give you an idea how this works in practice. say, there's this trader who wants to trade a financial product. it's called xyz and consists of this basket of shares in ten companies, which the buyer agrees at some fixed point in the future to sell in exchange for a complicated sort of loan, that is in turn pegged to a particular interest rate. "i told you, it would be complicated and trust me, i am simplifying terribly here because banks will have this particular problem sorted out by now. but bear with me, it's a hypothetical example to show you how things can still go wrong. "all of this is against the rules, a bank should never do a trade that its systems can't process as this makes it impossible to record and risk-manage that trade. but suppose the trader is a typical alpha-male and he shouts down the back-office guy, who is his junior. and the back-office guy, intimidated or unsure, goes along. "this is how rogue trading could happen. remember there are thousands and thousands of trades in all sorts of different products going on at the same time. "this is why i am always so interested in what we call 'governance'; what information reaches the top of the organisation and how? this is usually where the big problems begin. if you go back to the jerome kerviel rogue trading incident, société générale published a full enquiry and it turned out that a number of warning signs had flashed about kerviel's actions. but different divisions were working in 'silos' and then in 'sub-silos'. people did not share information, weren't even aware of the existence of it across the organisation. the 'governance' framework is meant to address that. "i am not going to defend the rogue traders, but i suspect not all are monsters who bring down the house for personal gain. these trading floors are very masculine environments. it's like a playground full of boys, they egg each other on and then something dangerous happens. so here's this trader and he takes a risk in a trade and he loses. he can't admit this to himself, to his mates, to his superior. so he covers it up with a new risky trade, which goes wrong again, all of which he hides somewhere in these vast computer systems; sure he will be able to recoup his losses soon, cover up his tracks and all will be well. or so he thinks. "this is why the culture in an organisation is so important. is this a place where somebody can raise his hand and say i made a mistake? does that get you a round of applause, or a round of sniggering? i know banks where admitting you got something wrong is not a smart thing to do. it comes down to leadership style; are you as an executive, approachable for your employees? "those banks that invest in their computer systems see considerably fewer instances of mishaps and fraud. it's a money-thing and also a risk-thing. there are banks that say, we will not get involved in certain products because we don't understand them or we can't monitor them sufficiently. then there are other banks where these risks are taken. "on my level, almost everywhere i go there are only 10 or 20% women. most of the time in senior meetings there is one other woman, and 10 men. i am deeply divided over affirmative action. the effect is that every time a woman makes a promotion people will think it's because she's a woman and not because she was the best candidate. i wouldn't want to make it to the top thanks to affirmative action. "all the major firms in finance go out of their way these days to attract more women, as they believe it creates a better, more diverse workforce. but it's not that simple. i work 80% because i also want to spend time with my kids. now a colleague who has no kids puts in maybe 150%. guess who is going to make partner next year? this job is highly competitive, and if you can work more hours than the rest you get ahead faster. it's that simple. so as a mother i actually need to be better than the others, because i have so much less time to do it in. "if i look at women with kids at my level of seniority then the key is always the partner and backup at home. you cannot solve everything with nannies. if i see a mother scale down her career, it's almost always because her husband declines to share in the child rearing. my husband works in the financial sector too, and we're both under pressure. but whenever i'm really busy he covers for me; like taking the kids to school in the morning. likewise the other way around. "basically, almost everyone i work with in banking is decent, bright and often quite nice. probably if you sat down with everyone who works in the city and talked to them individually, you'd find they're perfectly pleasant and honest, often with quite noble motives. yet if you look at the sector collectively, somehow, the outcomes are not quite so great. so how can people who are basically good run a system that produces bad outcomes? "the problem is greed. it took me a while to figure this out, i guess i came to this work with perhaps a bit of naivety. i am good-natured person, but there really is a lot of greed around. what's driving the greed? i'd say the competitive macho culture, all that testosterone. 'i have to be better than the next guy and so i have to make more money than him because that is proof that i am better than him' – that sort of thinking. "in law enforcement when you are trying to identify suspects, you look for people with both the motive and the opportunity to commit fraud, or a crime. given the vastness and complexity of computer systems at banks there will always be opportunities for those who know their way. and the macho culture gives people the motive: to satisfy their greed. "how to change this? they try it with ever more regulation. that's attacking the symptom. i genuinely have no idea."
us markets make early gains in hope of eurozone bailout deal the us stock market made early gains on wednesday in anticipation that european leaders will come up with a deal to bail out struggling member states and avoid a global debt crisis. the obama administration has been lobbying european leaders to reach a deal, fearful that failure could several damage america's fragile economy. although us investment and trade with countries such as greece is limited, the concern is over us trade and investment in europe in general and the close ties with european banks. in spite of the early gains in new york, financial analysts in the us expressed scepticism over whether european leaders would do enough to resolve the issue. the us treasury secretary, tim geithner, who has warned of a "catastrophic risk" of a debt crisis, has been in daily contact with his european counterparts. during a visit to north carolina on tuesday, he told the press he had urged european leaders to deliver on commitments already made. "i think they are saying a lot of the right things and they are clearly working on it and they're moving with a greater sense of urgency. that's all welcome, but until we see what they come together with, it's a little hard to evaluate," geithner said. he said he wanted to see the details, not just the objectives. charles collyns, an assistant secretary at the treasury, told a congressional hearing that the uncertainty in europe was undermining business and consumer confidence, and that any agreement would need to be implemented quickly. collyns added us investment in the countries most at risk was very limited and the main fear was over us banks' exposusre to european banks. although there have been glimmers of recovery appearing in government data released over the last few months, consumer confidence in the us remains extremely low. but there were further figures this morning offering a hint that that a tentative recovery may be underway, in spite of high unemployment and a depressed housing market. government figures showed a rise in orders in september for heavy machinery and other durable goods. other figures showed new home sales in the us rose 5.7% last month. barack obama, fearful of financial meltdown comparable to 2008, spoke to european leaders last week urging them to reach a deal. the white house view is that european countries have the financial capacity to resolve the crisis and all that is missing is the political will. but financial analysts were much more sceptical about the chances of a lasting and meaningful deal. david levy, chairman of jerome levy forecasting centre, said the current eurozone crisis was "the most dangerous economic situation that i have ever seen." he said the combination of europe's single currency and politically and financially autonomous member states was creating a nightmare scenario. "fewer and fewer countries are now guaranteeing the finances of more and more troubled countries. what is needed is far greater union but i'm afraid that in order to get there we will have to see a much bigger and more frightening crisis than is on the table now," he said. levy said any solution reached now was likely to prove a "band-aid", and was unlikely to resolve a situation he said was likely to pull the whole of the eurozone into recession – and the us along with it. "if they reach a solution, the stock markets will be happy, but we are just getting started. we are witnessing a dramatic scene in an early part of a story, unfortunately there is worse to come," he said. gus faucher, director of macroeconomics at moody's analytics, said it was probably a good thing that the meeting of european finance ministers had been cancelled. "it is better to set low expectations and meet them than to aim high and fail," he said. "but they can't just keep kicking the can down the road. at some point they are going to have to resolve this in a big way or we will have another financial crisis," said faucher. ann miletti, a senior portfolio manager with wells capital management, said us investors and consumers needed to see positive signs of improvement in the american economy as well as in europe. she told ap: "we look at europe and blame them for a lot of problems, but a lot of the uncertainty has really been us-driven." barry eichengreen, an economics professor at the university of california at berkeley, told bloomberg surveillance: "buck up, this crisis is going to be with us still for a while. i fear they're not going to take the kind of steps to resolve it."
second thoughts about the city's big bang thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the moment the london stock exchange switched on computer screens and shut down its dealing room, where men (and they were usually men) had traded shares in a form of hand-to-hand combat. it was known as the big bang. his reasoning? while the end of fixed commission for trading led to a cut in the price of buying and selling shares, it bolstered volumes of trade. this made the decision to allow brokers to combine with jobbers (the go-betweens for the brokers on the floor the exchange) a mistake as it also boosted the profits of the enlarged firms. smith also reckons that the big bang caused "insuperable conflicts of interest" as the end of the broker meant that customers could not longer be assured of fair treatment. there were other changes too: it marked the beginning of the "wimbledonisation" of the city, where foreign banks are encouraged to play even though domestic players are unable to dominate. before the big bang, the 300 member firms of the lse were domestic. within a year 75 were foreign owned while statistics now show that about 65% of the city's workforce is paid for by foreign players. advocates of reform argue that the changes made london the centre of international finance and gave individuals access to share trading in a way that once only been the preserve of big institutions. the changes helped london compete with the titans of wall street and encourage them to make the city their second home. without the changes, it is possible the city might have been little more than an offshore centre, making it difficult for big companies to raise the finance they need to operate. yet the current crisis has led to a dramatic reduction in flotations. smith goes as far as to conclude
euro bailout wrangles spook markets as fears of slump intensify fears intensified of a fresh global slump on tuesday as it emerged that europe's leaders were still at loggerheads over a three-pronged plan to save the single currency. hopes that summits in brussels on wednesday would deliver a "grand bargain" that would finally draw an end to an 18-month sovereign debt crisis were fading fast as talks planned for wednesday morning were cancelled, rumours surfaced of a collapse in silvio berlusconi's italian government and the german chancellor, angela merkel, adopted a hard line in negotiations with her french counterpart, nicolas sarkozy, over the shape of a rescue package. the lack of progress forced the cancellation of a meeting of the eu's 27 finance ministers, including britain's george osborne, in brussels on wednesday. "everybody realises that we are on the brink of such a total catastrophe that anything that prevents it and a huge recession must be grasped," one eu diplomat said. "the markets will kill us if they haven't laughed themselves to death." shares have been rising in the past few days amid speculation that wednesday's meetings, delayed from the weekend to give officials more time to piece together a deal, would agree the terms of a greek debt write-down, bolster the firepower of europe's bailout fund – the european financial stability facility (efsf) – and pump up to €108bn into europe's weakest banks. negotiations continued into the night on each strand. but with receding expectations of a deal, even in political outline, that could be signed, sealed and delivered by early thursday, sources said the only hope of a "miracle" lay in a meeting of senior euro working group officials late on tuesday. shares fell sharply late on in europe and in new york as evidence of a potential failure began spooking markets. at a senate hearing in washington, charles collyns, a senior us treasury official, said: "the european financial crisis presents the most serious risk today to global recovery and the prospects for us exports and american jobs." but he said: "we do think they are going to take action comprehensively in the next few days." the us has been putting intense pressure on europe to "get its act together" amid concerns that the crisis will push the world economy into a double-dip recession. washington is eager for a deal to be agreed before barack obama travels to cannes for next week's summit meeting of the g20 group of developed and developing countries. a suggestion doing the rounds of brussels corridors is that wednesday'ssummit could reach a last-minute political agreement, leaving finance ministers to sort out the complex technical issues later this week – perhaps even at the weekend. but this has already prompted analysts to question whether the eu can ever get its act together and be ahead of the market curve. "the job facing european leaders is no small one and can be likened to climbing everest without crampons," said angus campbell at capital spreads. brian barry, a bond market expert at evolution securities, said: "it's coming down to the wire. it's about restoring confidence. there has been very little so far to do that. something has to be done. if this doesn't work to restore confidence it will be quite worrying." indeed, in a draft resolution signed by all political parties for wednesday's session of the full bundestag on enhancing the efsf's firepower, german mps set out the expectation that the ecb would give up its bond-buying programme once the efsf had been leveraged up. the motion, likely to be endorsed by an overwhelming majority, also calls for a financial transaction tax. merkel said: "we're in an area here where we're all entering virgin territory." merkel and sarkozy have put severe pressure on berlusconi to arrive at wednesday's summits with precise plans to slash italy's ¤1.9tn debt, which stands at 120% of gdp, and reboot its stagnant economy. berlusconi has been battling over pension reform with his coalition partner the northern league and continued to hold talks at his residence in rome on tuesday, with promised proposals due in brussels by the afternoon delayed. the italian prime minister was not mollified by european commission spokesmen saying the aim was not to humiliate italy or punish it. simultaneously, private creditors remained locked in negotiations with the commission and ecb about the "haircuts" that need to be agreed if greek debt is to be written down in an orderly fashion. jean-claude juncker, the eurogroup chairman, made it plain that the eu was still seeking 50% or more, compared with the 21% agreed voluntarily in july when an outline second bailout programme of ¤109bn for greece was agreed. the banks, led by the outgoing deutsche bank chief josef ackermann, have offered 40% amid accusations that eu negotiators are holding a gun to their heads and actually want 60%. with this key issue unresolved, the boost to the efsf's firepower has not yet been agreed either. part of the efsf has already been pledged to help greece, ireland and portugal but the market expectation is that the remainder will be leveraged fivefold to provide a war chest of between €1.25tn and €1.5tn. officials confirmed that several variants are under discussion, all of which involve the fund acting as an insurer or guarantor for a slice of the losses – around 20% – that could be suffered by institutional or private bondholders. draft documents circulating in the bundestag confirm that both the imf and sovereign wealth funds from asia and the gulf could play a central role in marshalling the efsf's increased firepower. additional reporting by dominic rushe in new york and tom kington in rome
time to unleash financial firepower or face euro breakup now they do, but europe's leaders have been moving at a pace that would have been familiar to metternich and castlereagh. for the past 18 months they have dithered and delayed, squabbled with one another about what should be done and when. they have done everything apart from take the decisive action necessary to prevent a problem that could once have been cauterised from spreading from greece to its mediterranean neighbours. the time for prevarication is now over. financial markets, which move at a faster pace, will be watching when the leaders of the 17 eurozone countries emerge into the photographers' flashbulbs, probably around the time that brussels' bars are kicking out their few remaining customers in the small hours of thursday morning. the markets expect – no, make that demand – more than another attempt to kick the can down the road at wednesday's summit. although, worryingly, that on tuesday appeared to be the likeliest outcome. the words "make-or-break talks" are much overused, but in this case they are justified. if nicolas sarkozy, angela merkel, silvio berlusconi and the others around the negotiating table fail to come up with a deal that passes muster, history may look back on 26 october 2011 as the moment that triggered the final – and most dangerous – phase of the global financial crisis that began in the summer of 2007. it is a full agenda. firstly, the euro area has to sort out greece, which can't pay its debts and needs a write-down of at least 50%. secondly, europe has to get more capital into its banks, heavily exposed to losses in greece and other troubled countries, most notably italy and spain. the banks need perhaps €100bn (£87bn), and if they can't raise it themselves they will have to go cap in hand to the taxpayer. finally, europe needs to put together a bailout fund of such a size that it will put the frighteners on the markets. but "shock and awe" will not come cheap: the spread of the crisis to italy and spain means europe needs at least €2tn in the kitty. that sum would need to be doubled should the contagion spread to france. great depression getting it wrong will have profound consequences: a nasty european recession for sure, and – in the event that monetary union implodes – a world slump. "a euro breakup would be a disaster, threatening another great depression", said stephen king, chief economist at hsbc. getting it right will not necessarily bring an end to the problems that first surfaced almost two years ago when the government in athens announced that greece's public finances were in a much worse state than the bogus official figures suggested. but it will buy some precious time: time to convince the markets that europe is finally getting on top of the problem; time to make sure that europe's banks are strong enough to withstand losses on some imprudent investments; time to get europe's economy moving; time to work out a way to create political structures that will make monetary union work. german public opinion is vehemently opposed to anything that might smack of the ecb printing unlimited quantities of euros in order to buy up italian and spanish bonds. memories of people trundling wheelbarrows full of worthless notes through the streets in the hyperinflation of 1923 colour german economic policy to this day, and if merkel refuses to budge there is not much that the other 16 leaders can do about it. merkel has europe's biggest chequebook in her handbag. why then has europe found itself in this mess? the long-term answer to that question is that monetary union was always a reckless gamble, which relied on the ability of a single interest rate, a single exchange rate and a single inflation target to cement together countries with utterly different records of economic performance. for historical, cultural, geographic and linguistic reasons, the member states of the euro area were unalike. some countries enjoyed strong productivity growth, some had weak productivity growth. some had high levels of unemployment, some had a good record in creating jobs. some had a greater propensity to inflation than others. one-size-fits-all far from smoothing out these differences over time, the one-size-fits-all interest rate exacerbated them. countries on the periphery of the euro area, such as spain, found that the cost of borrowing fell even though there was a risk of their fast-growing economies overheating. the result was a real estate boom that culminated in a property crash. ireland went down the same route; in the pre-euro days of the 1990s growth in the celtic tiger was based around the strength of its hi-tech exports; in the 2000s it was driven by the reckless lending of its banks. italy found that it could not match germany's economic efficiency, and over time rising costs made italian exports less and less competitive. there was a second design flaw: europe had no mechanism for dealing with the problems caused by some countries performing more strongly than others. there are, traditionally, only three ways growth rates can be evened out: unemployed workers can move to where the jobs are; money can move to where the unemployed workers are; or the unemployed workers take pay cuts until the goods and services they produce become more competitive. language barriers mean europe lacks the labour market flexibility of the united states and there is also nothing to compare with the federal budget that the us treasury secretary, tim geithner, can deploy to move tax revenues from rich to poor states. that has left only one option: austerity. wolfgang schaeuble, germany's finance minister, has said that europe can no longer be a halfway house, with a central bank but no finance minister, and with a common interest rate but no tax and spending powers to move resources from one part of monetary union to the other. he says: "i am convinced that, with the escalation of the crisis, the time has come to accelerate the process of changing the political and institutional structures of the union towards a political and fiscal union." this is the sort of talk that makes eurosceptics wince, since schaeuble is really talking about the creation of a single european state in which countries lose the ability to levy their own taxes and make their own spending priorities. there is no evidence that europe's voters want this, although nor do they want the euro to break up. hence the attempts by policy makers to keep kicking the can down the road. this is a compromise that has held for the past 18 months, just about, but it won't stick for much longer. history suggests that in the long term monetary unions either develop into political unions or they collapse.
us optimism rises as europe struggles most commentators have credited the rise in values to nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel. a sense that the eurozone is finally getting its act together is the main reason for the rise in corporate values. not so, says the increasingly consistent theme of analysis coming out of the us. the rise in confidence among traders is the result of better figures from the corporate sector. last week general electric, the bellwether industrial conglomerate, reported an 18% rise in profits in the third quarter. earnings per share for the standard & poor's 500, excluding financial companies, rose 14% in the last quarter, according to analysts' estimates compiled by bloomberg. while it was the smallest gain since the end of 2009, it supported those who argue the us is likely to avoid a second recession. as graham turner of gfc economics said recently, the us still has many problems to overcome, not least a huge overhang of mortgages attached to sub-prime properties, but is edging its way back up. "to be sure, the us is a long way from enjoying anything approaching a normal cyclical upswing, but the deterioration in market sentiment in the us has been overdone, particularly as the fed has been far from idle. "of course, there is every danger that any recovery will be short-lived, if the us does not get a grip of the huge foreclosure backlog. but equally, the us is not heading into recession in 2011, and risk assets may need to re-price accordingly," he said. turner praises the fed, but tim geithner should get some credit too. the democrat administration has pumped as many government dollars into the economy as congress will allow. the arguments on capitol hill will be familiar to most readers, with the tea party children in one corner and president barack obama, washington's responsible adult, in the other. their persistent rows means almost as quickly as money has gone into employment schemes from federal funds, so state legislatures, labouring under balanced budget rules, have taken them out. but the overall effect has prevented the same consistent austerity message that dominates the uk and eurozone. last week german finance minister wolfgang schäuble made a dig at geithner, after his us counterpart pleaded for both a massive bailout package to save greece/italy/spain, and stimulus measures to rescue a eurozone heading back into recession. that judgment does not look secure today. as paul krugman and other keynesian economists have argued, the us needed more government-supported investment - more consistently applied - to bring about a strong recovery, bigger tax income and a better capacity to repay debts. but the stimulus geithner was able to squeeze past the republicans might have done enough to save them from recession. when today's surveys from the manufacturing and services sectors inside the eurozone show recession is "already baked in the cake" (to use the favoured phrase of scotia capital's alan clarke), an apology from schäuble could soon be in order.
glencore could tap rich vein of indonesian coal with bumi deal the talks have been prompted because the bakries need to refinance a $1.35bn loan, arranged by credit suisse, which was pledged against their 47% stake in bumi, which controls more than 3bn tonnes of coal reserves. the bakrie empire, spearheaded by leading politician and presidential candidate aburizal bakrie, spans half a dozen industrial companies listed on the indonesian stock exchange. but the bakries are under pressure because bumi shares have collapsed in the global commodities rout, prompting a crisis because the entire 47% stake was used as collateral for the credit suisse loan. as part of any deal, glencore is also thought to want the indonesians to give the swiss preferential trading rights in other areas of the bakrie businesses. glencore is not the only potential buyer in the frame for bumi, according to sources, with tpg-backed northstar also a bidder. but glencore is viewed as the most likely partner for the bakries, with analysts pointing to existing links with the family via a number of coal-marketing agreements and share swap arrangements. bumi plc was formed by rothschild's vallar cash shell in a series of complex deals late last year. rothschild speaks for 10%.
cocaine testing lined up for italy's stock market traders
ladbrokes slips after purchase aborted news of the u-turn – which followed a similar conclusion to talks to acquire another online gaming group, 888, in april – is likely to heap further pressure on ladbrokes boss richard glynn, who joined the group in april 2010 with a brief to beef up the company's digital offering. glynn said: "no [i don't feel under any pressure]. i'd feel under increasing pressure if i thought i'd done a deal that was wrong. we're a very tight board. we've determined this every step of the way. we have absolute unanimity on purpose and unanimity on the decision that we've made." he declined to provide odds on the chances of him still being at the company at the end of what he terms "plan a", a programme to revamp the company's internet operations organically, scheduled for completion by the middle of next year. analyst simon french at broker panmure gordon said: "in essence it sounds like it's back to plan a, which is £50m of investment in the [online] division over two years. i think it's concerning that they continue to enter talks with companies and then don't seem to be able to close out the deal. it begs questions about whether other companies will be willing to enter acquisition talks with them in the future." however, the rationale behind the aborted deal – to provide ladbrokes with much improved online betting technology as well as an international business – remains and market watchers identified unibet as another potential target. glynn declined to comment. ladbrokes had been in talks with sportingbet since june, but the target's business in turkey, where unlicensed gambling websites are illegal, was seen by analysts as a stumbling block to a successful takeover. that issue appeared to have been resolved in july, however, when sportingbet announced it was discussing selling its turkey-facing site for an estimated £100m to aim-listed gvc holdings. but glynn said: "we have been unable to agree a structure which delivers increased shareholder value within an acceptable regulatory environment". glynn pulled out of talks with 888 in april because of long-running differences in what each side thought the business was worth. one gaming analyst, who declined to be named, said: "i suspect that glynn will now be under pressure. there was always an issue [with the sportingbet deal] that was obvious to everybody. they have now spent months to conclude that the obvious block cannot be avoided. he is yet to deliver anything online and ladbrokes shares are at an all-time low." sportingbet said its talks with gvc continue, but its shares still slumped by more than 19% to 37p. despite the market expecting a ladbrokes bid at around 70p-80p, sportingbet shares never rose above 60p during the talks, indicating that few investors believed that a deal was a certainty. simon davies, of broker collins stewart, said: "sportingbet's share price reflected a low probability of success, but this is undoubtedly disappointing. we now expect it to sell its turkish operations; bringing in around £80m over several years, and reducing regulatory risk. it comes at a price – with circa £28m knocked off full-year 2012 ebitda [earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation] and earnings per share diluted by around 50%. we think the reduction in risk will drive a positive response, increasing the attractions for other potential bidders, such as bwin.party or betfair."
voices of finance: banker's ex-girlfriend the idea for this story came from you. in the comments section a number of you pointed out that if the banking blog only featured people in finance who actually agreed to meet, there was bound to be a bias and the nice and open-minded across the financial sector would be over-represented. this is why i was very happy when a young woman got in touch and volunteered to talk about her time as the girlfriend of a typical young high-flying investment banker. there will be more interviews with people who come or have come into close contact with those people in finance who are less likely to agree to meet a guardian anthropologist. we are meeting one rainy september evening in rocket, a secluded bankers' favourite in the heart of the city. she is in her mid-20s, and recently out of university with two graduate degrees under her belt. "i remember the first time on a sunday morning he told me he'd have to go into the office. i was appalled. then i thought, wait, this is his way of telling me it's over. turned out, quite the contrary. for him it was completely natural that if his work summoned him, he'd go. "this is what wrecked our relationship in the end. he was married to his work, not to me. he was working for a big investment firm, running a kind of a hedge fund. i'd tell him, just quit. you have made enough for us to live on for years to come. what's stopping you? we can travel. you are destroying your health, you can't sleep without sleeping pills any more, then in the morning you need more pills to get going. "and he'd say, i know you're right, this job is taking over everything, i am losing you. give me 10 more years and i'll never have to work another day in my life, i'll never have to go back. "we both knew that he would never quit, he loves his job, it's his life, his identity. he'd call me up from new york, all cheery that his company put him in a double suite two floors higher than his peer which meant they'd spent $200 more than on him. then he'd tell me it was foggy and the higher up you were in that hotel, the worse it got. "i am in a fucking cloud!" he'd say, and i'd go, "that's your karma", and we'd laugh. "he was incredibly sweet and caring and clearly was in need of love. but there was his job. you have to remember, these were 21-year-old boys when they went into these banks, fresh out of university and they have been slaving away for years. working your way up the ladder for such a long time you get used to measuring success in terms of money and status. "there was the year when his bonus was really quite low; the bank had had a tough year. he was almost physically hurting, you could tell, as if somebody had punched him in the chest. i do know for a fact that he is actually terrified of losing his job in a new crisis. i wonder if everyone in the industry has that secret fear. he is now back with his former girlfriend, the one he had been with for a very long time, before meeting me. he told me, i can't have a girlfriend who doesn't know what she wants. i was too bohemian for him, too dangerous, confronting, too flaky. the girl he's gone back to is more accustomed to living the "rich life". she understands the importance of status better and will probably be much better at encouraging him in his career. i simply could not do that, though i tried. "there was that time that i told him that i did not care about his money. i assumed he would love me for saying that, because it meant i wasn't in it for the money. not at all! he wanted me to want him in part for his money, for his ability to take care of me. i don't think it was a control issue, in the sense of him controlling me through the money. he wanted to make me happy and spending money on me was the easiest way for him to do that. then again, there was this one time when i moved out of my apartment and he would help clean it – coming in around midnight straight out of work. that was so sweet. but then he'd also insist on paying for my taxi and on giving me some pocket money for the trip. he would be rude to the taxi driver, saying they were uneducated and always after money. that made me feel so bad, i've never been nicer to a taxi driver to make up. so again this thing about money and status, pitting himself against taxi drivers. if he'd just come to my apartment to help empty it, and left out the money and the rudeness to the taxi driver to 'impress' me; it could have been perfect. "he'd say, don't you want me to provide for you? be realistic, when you start a family, you need someone to take care of you. and i'd be like, i can work too! i would be really proud to have found a cinema where you could go for a movie for £3.50. he would hate that. or rather, he'd be at a loss. my sense is that bankers like him have this need to impress, and when they can't use money to do that, they don't know what to do. "people in finance do work incredibly hard. i thought that was exaggerated, what people are saying about insane hours but i saw it first-hand. off to new york at very short notice, conference calls at midnight. often my boyfriend would not be done before 10, 11. "we'd go out for a meal, but sometimes restaurants would have closed already. i remember that time we ended up in a kebab shop. he was so uncomfortable! i was really hungry and i simply wanted a kebab sandwich. and there he was, in his very expensive suit, trying to get me to order salad, and rice, and a coke, and what have you. he just couldn't handle the idea that we would simply have a very cheap kebab sandwich. would get bossy and obnoxious to the owner. i swear, he would have been happier paying £400 for that sandwich than £4. "i thought people in finance would be really intelligent. they definitely are, though only in a narrow sense. their overall intelligence, or understanding of the world, is often quite limited. i once had a very open chat with an analyst at an investment firm, he was managing hedge funds/investments in the cocoa industry. i asked him if he ever thought of the consequences of his decisions for cocoa pickers and farmers in african countries. he looked at me a bit confused and literally said that this was none of his business. he only did the analysis, he was a numbers guy. it just didn't occur to him that decisions made in his office, based on his analyses, influence the lives of thousands of workers in africa. "all of this is quite painful for me to talk about, to take my mind back to a time when i would often been seen as an accessory, as a non-person. yes, i've been to the places where bankers go to pick up a trophy girlfriend, or wife. i admit i was curious and sometimes i may have even enjoyed it a little. most of the time i would feel really out of place. especially when i overheard one of those "how much do you make?" conversations. sometimes i still come across men who invite me to go sailing in the mediterranean for a weekend, to fly to the caribbean … i'm not going on a trip with a random person just because it's a rich guy offering you a dream destination. it seems flattering but it's not – it's only meant as an ego boost for them and you're nothing but a long-legged accessory. "in london, 'banking' is a lifestyle. the funniest thing is going for an after-work drink (i used to work in the city myself for a while) and watching men who are trying to look like bankers, making attempts to pick up a trophy girl for a night. ironically they always end up with a 'fake' trophy wife. the 'real' trophy girls are very good at telling an expensive watch from a cheap one, they check the cuff links, a suit's cut, they know who they're talking to immediately."
big bang's shockwaves left us with today's big bust that man was dick fuld, who later achieved notoriety as the captain of the investment bank as it went down with all hands, but even in the mid 1980s he was demonstrating a deftness of touch. at an early meeting, messel executives told their new thrusting boss that if he was serious about achieving his aggressive growth plans, they really needed to supplement the london office with another in frankfurt. "no way," fired back the earnest american. "we're never going behind the iron curtain!" many of the messel staff present have dined out on that one ever since, but it is only one of many anecdotes about the events leading up to what will forever be known in the city as the big bang. this month marks the 25th anniversary of that radical thatcherite reshaping of the city, a period in which the americans arrived to snap up ancient city institutions for huge premiums, leading to the clubby atmosphere of the square mile being replaced with the rapacious, bonus-grabbing culture of the investment bank. "nobody could quite believe how much the americans wanted to pay," recalls adam pollock, now head of corporate broking at panmure gordon, then a banker at lazard. "it brought with it a renewed vigour and enthusiasm, with everybody working a lot harder. but that ended some traditions. it used to be de rigueur to have a big lunch." the big bang was partly about modernisation – ensuring that the city used up-to-date technology such as computers. but it also dismantled the barriers between the separate, narrowly focused firms in the city, the stockbrokers, advisers and "jobbers" who created the markets in shares. afterwards, all these services could exist under one roof and ultimately, some would argue, it led to the catastrophe of the credit crunch, whose effects the uk is still living through. "big bang was the start of investment banking in the uk," says tony dolphin, chief economist at the institute for public policy research. with them, argues city veteran tony greenham of the new economics foundation thinktank, came deep-seated conflicts of interest. "on the plus side, the americans brought a more meritocratic culture," he says. "but they also brought the idea that, instead of being client-based, it was a transaction-based business. you change from long-termism to short-termism, from looking after the long-term interests of your client to making the biggest buck out of today's deal." when a company is considering a float or a merger, for example, its bankers will both advise it on the deal and sell the shares to investors, taking a cut on every side, meaning that their interest lies firmly in encouraging the mega-bucks transactions that came to characterise the champagne-popping culture of the city in the mid-to-late 80s, the late 90s and the early noughties. "what happened in the old days was that the company would engage a financial adviser and they would shop around for a stockbroker," says greenham. now "the same company, even the same team, are advising investors and companies, and that's just a ridiculous conflict of interest". and if the bank is involved in proprietary trading, the controversial practice barack obama is seeking to outlaw with his "volcker law", it might also be risking its own money on the deal. it is partly this tendency to omnipresence that prompted one commentator to call goldman sachs a "vampire squid". some say this observation has always been more than just a nice soundbite. over the years, as investment banks developed increasingly sophisticated financial instruments, they became involved with one another in an ever-expanding web of bets and counter-bets, making them almost inextricably entwined. it was precisely that problem that sent shockwaves through the world's markets when the fuld-led lehman brothers collapsed in september 2008. professor karel williams of manchester's centre for research on socio-cultural change (cresc) argues that the big bang did not just unleash the forces of capitalism, it also created powerful vested interests that have shaped british politics ever since. "deregulation allowed the city to construct long lines of indebtedness, which are completely beyond technical regulation and, as we see with the eurozone crisis, beyond political management." "what have the markets spent all summer doing, except wittering on asking for political leadership, which is [code for: angela] merkel should listen to them and not the german electorate. but in a democracy, the prime responsibility of a political leader is to the electorate. deregulation created a sectional interest in finance, which is beyond political subordination." many economists also argue that the growing dominance of finance, accelerated by the big bang, helped to bring about profound changes in the uk's economic model. george osborne bemoans the imbalances in an economy far too focused on finance and debt, and with too little emphasis on britain's former strengths in industry. but others argue that the tories' deregulatory spree in the 80s could have done as much to bring about that out-of-kilter economic model as the forces of globalisation, which helped to undermine manufacturing. dolphin says: "people talk about comparative advantage as if it's god-given and just emerges, but we know that's not true. big bang was important in cementing britain's advantage in finance. "the fact that we had this growing financial industry did attract a lot of capital. those capital flows, other things being equal, would have pushed sterling up, and therefore will have accelerated the decline of manufacturing." dolphin points to the fact that, as the power of finance grew, britain consistently ran trade deficits, year after year: "it produced a casualness about the decline of manufacturing and the collapse of all competing sectors which is really quite jaw-dropping." in the other camp is – predictably – lord lawson, who introduced the reforms as margaret thatcher's chancellor. he insists they were as much about strengthening the london stock exchange as slashing red tape; as much about regulation as deregulation. "it was absolutely essential, because it was a way of bringing the stock market into the 20th century, and in particular making sure it was adequately capitalised," he says. "the financial services act, which did regulation of the stock market, was the first time that it had been put on a statutory basis. it was an act of regulation, not deregulation." instead, he blames gordon brown, more than a decade later, for handing the supervision of individual banks over to the shiny new financial services authority in its canary wharf headquarters, while leaving the bank of england in charge of overseeing the stability of the financial system. "the individual banks are the system," lawson says. he concedes that some conflicts of interest may have emerged as investment banking evolved but says: "nobody at the time realised that if you put everything together, there would be a problem." britain was not the only country to unleash the money-spinning potential of the bankers, of course, but thatcher's ideological convictions of unleashing the power of the markets put london in the vanguard — and brown did nothing to fetter the masters of the universe. twenty-five years on, lawson is unrepentant, insisting that the benefits of the big bang far outweigh the disadvantages. but even he admits to a certain nostalgia for the old city: "the stock exchange was run as a kind of private club: no outsiders could come in and it was riddled with restrictive practices. it was a very charming club – i rather liked it – but there was no way in which it could be a strong player in that business in the modern world." that would be the modern world of 1986 – the one whose geography fuld would soon become acquainted with.
beside the horror of recession, something gaudy is stirring ... the ivy club is a small oasis between st martin's lane and the charing cross road. it is fashionable in ftse-land (and also with cilla black and christopher biggins). caprice holdings owns the ivy and scott's and the caprice, and it says that trading at the nightclubs has increased by 8.8%, compared with a year ago, and at the restaurants by 5.2%. so some of the excess is going on spinach and champagne and staring at cilla black. luxury hotels are booming, too. the savoy has just had a £220m refit. the four seasons has been polished for £125m, and the new hotel in london's st pancras station is one of the wonders of the city. what a public space it would have made, but we do not live in those times. the british hospitality association (bha) estimates that £1.5bn has been spent building or improving five-star london hotels in the past two years, with more to come. there will soon be plutocrats in shoeboxes everywhere, although whether the designers will reach the heights of ludwig of bavaria's solid silver tap in the shape of a swan at neuschwanstein castle, i don't know. i would wager yes, or, if the photos of the new hotels in abu dhabi are to be believed, something worse. i am not saying only the very rich have no taste, although, having just returned from monaco, where i saw gold cowboy boots and matching crockery with my own bleeding eyes, i can assure you they have not. (i can also assure you that to avoid capital gains tax, some people are pay ¤1.2m for a studio flat.) they just have more freedom to exercise no taste than others, with catastrophic moral and visual results. and because these happenings are treated less as a grunt of contempt than a sort of live action version of ok! magazine (social inequality – that's entertainment!), any criticism is only a hum. roman abramovich's girlfriend daria zhukova gives an interview to a magazine. nothing on how he got his money, but a lot on how he spends it. carpets. yachts. yachts with carpets. one newspaper reported that an armada of superyachts is expected in london for the olympics, and plutocrats will be bussed from deck to stadium. might this be an opportunity to ask why, when londoners are paying so much for the olympics in taxation, many will not be able to afford tickets for the games they are paying for? no. it was reported that the spectacle of the yachts would be marvellous, and people would not even have to pay to see them gathered on the thames like whales. to watch near-criminal excess is free. standing behind the rope, gawping won't cost. any protesters, i suspect, can expect a punch in the mouth, though. but in the absence of fair taxation, we do have charity. ten days ago there was a charity fashion show in milan. it was a curious event, for two reasons. first, the models were children, even if they were dressed as models, specifically elle macpherson. i do not know if you have ever seen a miniature macpherson, but it is sinister. one child wore a leopardskin frock, while the rest were dressed, for obvious reasons, as second wives. the other curious fact was that this fashion show was not in aid of armless milliners, or legless glove makers, but for children in crisis, which exists to educate children in the democratic republic of congo, sierra leone and liberia. so wealthy children wear designer clothes to benefit their wretched counterparts, and are applauded for it. even philanthropy must now be social, and explicitly narcissistic. it is, inexorably, time for the bono argument because bono is the ultimate exhibitionist philanthropist and his absence from the fashion kids for children in crisis catwalk was a grave oversight. pro-bono people watch bono slink around the world in his private jet, and high-five heads of state and say: "at least he is doing something for charity." for me, his real low point was not his nomination for the nobel peace prize but the vanity fair cover that said africa: bono, and inside featured a photograph of a supermodel hugging a maasai warrior. anti-bono people, who are usually sane types who do not like u2, will say: "if he cares so much, why doesn't he pay his tax in ireland? why move his tax affairs to the netherlands when tax in ireland went up?" yes, bono – why? perhaps you will tell us in song. but this is the best they can do, for now. look around you, david cameron, at two nations – the bag and the bag-not – and despair.
beware false sightings of adam smith's invisible hand their economic philosophy was revealed in a series of interviews by ferguson who filmed them arguing that a free market should be left to rule without a government hand on the tiller or taxes that distort economic behaviour. the market, they said, propels business people to conduct a relentless search for profit and produce economic goods that benefit all. the invisible hand releases such a flurry of activity that economic goods trickle down to labour, despite the concern of unions that from those who have first claim on them, the capitalists, will hoard their gains. conflating free market theories with utilitarianism, these academics appeared to argue that allowing a free-for-all would bring the greatest benefit to the largest number of people. warren samuels, a professor at michigan university who died in august, set about investigating what the originator of the term invisible hand, the influential 18th-century economic thinker adam smith, meant by the term and examine how it is applied. samuels says the academics – and in particular the monetarists and free market cheerleaders of the all-powerful chicago school, who influenced many senior figures from margaret thatcher to bill clinton – tailored the term for their own political ends. samuels spends much of his book dissecting all the many and contradictory definitions and supposed benefits of the invisible hand. in particular, he debunks the idea that smith's support for what keynes later described as the animal spirits of business confidence and pursuit of profit also led him to demand small government. "that adam smith stands for laissez faire, non-interventionism and minimal government is a dominant theme in economics and elsewhere. was it a misperception to attribute it to adam smith? "smith provided a spirited attack on mercantilism for its extraordinary restraints, but he did not extend the attack to government and law in general. indeed, many of those who do extend the attack, wittingly or otherwise, are silent about smith's candour." he then goes on to quote a passage by smith that libertarians, tea party members and even property-owning middle classes would like to think is less relevant to the present than it so obviously remains. "wherever there is great property, there is great inequality … civil government supposed a certain subordination. but as the necessity of civil government gradually grows up with the acquisition of valuable property, so the principal causes which naturally introduce subordination gradually grow up with the growth of that valuable property … civil government, so far as it is instituted for the security of property, is in reality instituted for the defence of the rich against the poor, or of those who have some property against those who have none at all." sadly, crude interpretations of smith have won important friends, especially since the 1960s, when widespread property ownership became a big issue for politicians. the nobel prize for economics was first awarded in 1969, and since then has rewarded research into how markets work, with the emphasis on the examination of pure markets and the equilibrium they can achieve if only they are left alone by governments and regulators. all market failures are blamed on interventions. and that is still the case today, with many on the right arguing the banking crash was not the result of too little regulation, but of too much.
what does high-frequency trading do to the markets? "this means it would in principle be possible to execute around 40,000 back-to-back trades in the blink of an eye. if supermarkets ran hft programs, the average household could complete its shopping for a lifetime in under a second." while he noted that high-frequency trading could add liquidity to markets and reduce the difference between the price at which customers want to buy and sell, known as the bid-ask spread, he also noted that there was evidence of increased volatility in markets since 2005 – and perhaps of more concern to him, a correlation between markets. while the focus has been on the dow, data from the central bankers' bank, the bank for international settlements, show that high-frequency trading accounts for around a quarter of daily currency trades. the bis reckons that there is evidence that the rise in such trading strategies has led to an increase in turnover in the markets. haldane is among those who reckons "circuit breakers should be installed in markets to avoid another 'flash crash'". "we do not need to await a second flash crash to establish it was no fluke," haldane said in july. "the flash crash was a near miss. it taught us something important, if uncomfortable, about our state of knowledge of modern financial markets. not just that it was imperfect, but that these imperfections may magnify, sending systemic shockwaves," he added. as with many events in the markets, the flash crash was not as simple as pinning all the blame on high-frequency trades. the official us report also noted: "whether trading decisions are based on human judgment or a computer algorithm, and whether trades occur once a minute or thousands of times each second, fair and orderly markets require that the standard for robust, accessible, and timely market data be set quite high. although we do not believe significant market data delays were the primary factor in causing the events of 6 may, our analyses of that day reveal the extent to which the actions of market participants can be influenced by uncertainty about, or delays in, market data." haldane's argument is that this ever-increasing speed of trading is not adding to liquidity in markets during times of stress but amplifying the problem – as appears to have been the case during the flash crash when he said there were delays in sending price quotes on 1,000 stocks. the outcome of their work, however, will not be known until the autumn of 2012.
apple stock price falls on news of steve jobs's death apple shares are now trading 3.5% lower at €273, after hitting a low of €270 in frankfurt. the shares are not traded in london. they are expected to open lower when wall street opens at 2.30pm london time. apple's stock price has risen more than 9,000% since jobs returned in 1997. the shares have more than doubled in the past two years, while microsoft has gained just 5.1% and intel has risen 14%. hewlett-packard is down 48%.
russian mining company boss attacks fellow businessmen as 'adolescent' the chief executive of the latest russian mining company heading for the ftse 100 has attempted to distance himself from the corporate governance woes afflicting his compatriots by slamming businessmen from the former soviet union as "showy" and "adolescent". "the russian business culture is still an adolescent culture," he said. "it has not learned patience or humility. it is still showy and wide-mouthed. this is just youth." nesis added: "the perception of the russian oligarch is negative in london. such news only adds to the struggle." the group says it is switching its shares to london to give it access to capital for future projects while the listing will also create a more acceptable currency for global acquisitions. around 15% of the group's shares are also traded via global depository receipts (a financial instrument used to own foreign companies) meaning the russian limit of 25% would be breached if any of the three major investors wanted to sell. polymetal's leading shareholders are czech billionaire petr kellner's investment group ppf which owns around 20%; nesis's brother alexander who holds around 18%; and billionaire waterstone's owner alexander mamut with around 10%. the trio are locked-in for 180 days. nesis said he receives no intereference from any of the main shareholders and is confident they will cause a london-listed company no embarrassment. "i know for sure that my brother never dealt with the devil. what i know of mr mamut and mr kellner, they haven't either." polymetal was russia's fourth-largest gold producer and the country's biggest silver producer last year. after enjoying a stellar run on the back of its status as a safe haven, the value of gold has dropped slightly recently. nesis said that if "there were a dramatic fall [in the gold price over the next few weeks] we will have to cancel the offer", although he insisted that the company's existing shares would still be listed in london.
waiting for angela (still) only 10 days ago, the world thought it had glimpsed an exit from the burning building, to use william hague's metaphor. the us, the imf and others had read the riot act to europe and half a plan seemed to have been hatched. european banks would be recapatilised, thereby making it safer for greece to default in time; and member states would club together to make the european financial stability facility a true fighting force capable of restoring order to sovereign debt markets. a very big number was whispered for the size of the rescue fund – €2tn. stocks markets, primed to respect governments' displays of force, soared for a couple of days. but that washington meeting yielded no official announcement. we soon found out why. germany, though happy to sanction expansion of the efsf to €440bn, was offering no hints about additional cash – not even if the extra firepower was created via the use of leverage. moreover, it now transpires, the german-led bloc is having second thoughts about the terms of july's bail-out of greece. that's understandable. the original haircuts of 21% agreed with the banks don't acknowledge the economic reality that greece still wouldn't get back to stability. but the truth hurts: fresh panic about the pain in store for holders of greek debt was inevitable. and now there's dexia, a bank that cleared its stress tests with ease in the summer but now needs explicit guarantees from the governments of france and belgium. the need for widespread bank recapitalisations looks even more urgent. in other words, the mess that confronted the world leaders in washington has become more dangerous. the panic in european banking stocks is even crossing back over the atlantic in the form of rising costs for anybody who wants to insure themselves against the default of big american investment banks, pillars that had supposedly been reinforced with concrete in 2009. so, hands up, who thinks remedies will agreed in time to meet george osborne's six-weeks-from-washington deadline? you have to be an extreme optimist to believe it will be done. niall ferguson, the historian, was in town for a round-table discussion yesterday. he thought germany and others will eventually come up with a scheme of sufficient size – he thought €1.5tn or so might do the trick – but added: "the question is whether they will do it this year or next." his money would be on the latter. that looks the sensible bet. angela merkel's coalition government in germany is fragile, and the temptation to believe the moment of real crisis can be postponed is great. the implication, though, is that more bloody days like today may lie ahead. many serious investors believe european share prices look absurdly cheap and that a greek default might even trigger a rally. but in a market where assets are being liquidated because they can be, shares (the most liquid of assets) can always get cheaper.
london metal exchange: top hats and tales from the trading floor there are traders at the london metal exchange (lme) who can still recollect an era when their colleagues sported top hats and tails to work. "at the very least you had to wear a jacket and tie at all times, even in 100-degree heat," recalls one who started in the 1970s, "and you certainly weren't allowed to wear coloured shirts." while there has been some relaxation in the dress code, – and a blue collar no longer causes an old-timer's eyebrow to arch – strict standards endure. even now traders must wear a jacket and tie with their top buttons done up, while crimes such as chewing gum on the trading floor are punishable by a small fine, as one trader has just discovered. "it turned out he'd bought the gum in the canteen," says one insider. "so the lme got its money twice." that seems to be the definition of the perfect trade, and is perhaps the reason the exchange has survived and prospered for more than 130 years. yet suddenly its gentlemanly way of life, which includes the last open outcry trading pit in europe, appears under threat as a bidding war has broken out for the member-owned exchange. the suggested value of the lme ranges from £160m to £1bn, a huge spread, which reflects a couple of points of view. on the upside the lme is a highly liquid market and in 2010 achieved business volumes of 120.3m lots – equivalent to $11.6 trillion annually and $46bn on an average day. on the downside the lme is not run to make a profit. it is owned by the banks and trading houses that use it, and it charges fees at around a 75% discount to other trading platforms. so is the lme about to be bought? any potential deal is unlikely to be concluded quickly, chief executive martin abbott insisted on monday. "if and when the board is satisfied that there is something serious that the shareholders should see … i can't imagine that is going to happen before the end of the first quarter, possibly the beginning of q2," he said. still, there remains concern among members about how a different ownership structure might affect london's historic commodity trading hub, which dates back to the reign of elizabeth i. alex heath, global head of lme sales and trading at intl fcstone, said: "the lme has survived the tin crisis [of the mid 1980s] and the collapses of drexel burnham lambert in 1990, enron in 2001 and refco in 2005 – all of which had exchange membership. it has gone from strength to strength adapting to the ever-changing investment climate and the huge shift into the electronic trading era while balancing the needs of all its members and users. where changes to the exchange have been introduced they have been through practitioner debate and experience. looking at other exchanges that have been acquired by interested parties, you will find that often the model is changed to fit the model of the aquisitor, which is more often driven by shareholder interest rather than practitioner or client. the members and the clients of the lme are very proud of their heritage and will debate at some length [the potential sale]." that heritage began in 1571 with the creation of the world's first commodities market in the city's royal exchange. but by the early 19th century, the venue had become so crowded that metal merchants began gathering at the jerusalem coffee house on cornhill, where the lme's tradition of ring-and-kerb trading began. a merchant with metal to sell would draw a circle in the sawdust on the floor and call out "change", at which point all those wishing to trade would assemble around the ring and make their bids. after hours, dealings would take place outside, or on the kerb. by 1877 the lme had been created through the establishment of the london metal market and exchange company, which was based above a hat shop in lombard court, but those early traditions remained and continue to this day, despite the surge of electronic trading. while trades are now conducted via computer and telephone, much of the business is still done by open outcry in the ring – where each of the nine metal contracts (aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, tin, nickel, cobalt, steel and molybdenum) are traded in two blocks with a five-minute session for each contract (lasting from 11.40 until 13.10 and from 14.55 until 16.15). those two sessions are followed by two blocks of 85 and 45 minutes of "kerb" trading. only 12 of the lme's member firms can trade on the floor – including amalgamated metal trading, metdist and barclays – and the old ways retain supporters. prices are derived from the most liquid periods and are considered the most representative of industry supply and demand. such is the lme's liquidity, its prices are recognised throughout the industry. of that liquidity, just 1% of trading is for physical product, with the remainder futures. if that seems as though the exchange is tipping its hat at modern derivatives, it is anything but. the opening of the suez canal, in 1868, reduced the delivery time of tin from malaysia and singapore to match the three months delivery for copper from chile – all of which gave rise to lme's system of daily trading dates for up to three months forward. modern practices have, in some ways, made the place more conservative, despite the demise of the top hat. round-the-clock trading and the arrival of us firms are credited with killing off the traditional long lunch, which has put a stop to tales such as that of an inebriated dealer riding on to the trading floor on a unicycle one afternoon. he circled the ring, throwing sweets at the other dealers, who were prevented from trading if they left their seats. what became of him? the lme's 130th anniversary supplement records: "i think he's a city alderman and high sheriff now".
city warned of looming job cuts as market turmoil takes its toll banks are suffering a severe slowdown after a torrid few months on global financial markets, according to a survey for the cbi. the downturn could lead to further job cuts in the next quarter. the business lobby group warned that the mood in the industry had darkened, with worries about the fate of the eurozone and falling global demand for banking services. the cbi said: "in the next three months, firms expect growth will be slower still and, for the first time in two years, there will be no improvement in profitability. meanwhile, sentiment has fallen for the first time since march 2009, as firms anticipate more challenging conditions." of the 84 financial services firms polled in the latest cbi/pwc survey, 33% reported a rise in business volumes in the three months to september, and 24% recorded a fall. the resulting rounded balance of +10% is the lowest since june 2010 and represents a slower rate of growth than the june quarter when it reached +17%. many of the city's biggest banks maintained profits with increases in fees and commissions, but expect gains to be short-lived. a net 20% of firms are less optimistic than three months ago, the first time confidence has fallen since march 2009. ian mccafferty, chief economic adviser, said: "the recovery in the financial services sector is continuing but the pace of growth has slowed compared with earlier in the year. after a torrid couple of months on global financial markets, the mood has clearly darkened. uncertainty about future demand, worries about the global recovery and shifting regulatory sands are weighing on sentiment. "with business volumes predicted to slow further and little growth in income expected, firms are planning to reduce their headcount in the next quarter." several high profile city banks have come under pressure in recent weeks as investors fear their reserves will prove inadequate in the event of another financial crisis. ubs, which announced a €2.3bn loss from trading irregularities, is expected to embark on large-scale cost cutting. it may also wind down its investment bank, which is a large employer in london. the hedge fund manager man group said last week it planned to shed one in five employees, adding to concerns that many firms in the area of financial services known as shadow banking – when firms borrow and lend like a bank but do not take deposits – are suffering a loss of business. lloyds, royal bank of scotland, barclays and hsbc have seen their share prices dive since the summer on fears that difficulties among french and german banks will hurt their profits. insurers and fund managers have fared better, according to the survey, though they have also suffered from growth slow and are more pessimistic about the outlook than they were in the last quarter. mark stephen, uk insurance leader at pwc, said: "an increase in business volumes and profitability has done little to reassure life insurers as predictions for new business remain low. many expect to see the value of new business fall over the next three months as the economic backdrop puts pressure on the attractiveness of life insurance products."
g20 leaders fail to agree on imf help for eurozone leaders of the world's 20 most powerful economies have failed to agree on how to increase the powers of the international monetary fund so it can help stem the european debt crisis, despite acknowledging that the fund's resources should be boosted. "it's important that the imf sees its resources reinforced," jose manuel barroso, the president of the european commission, told reporters. however, any decisions on how to reinforce the imf were left until february. the lack of detail disappointed markets, with stocks, bonds and the euro falling. italy's borrowing rates, in particular, hit worrying new highs. barroso said the imf's increased resources would be there to help countries around the world, not just the eurozone, indicating europe is struggling to attract help from its global partners to fight its debt crisis. german chancellor angela merkel said no countries outside the eurozone had committed any money to the region's bailout fund. barroso said several countries had indicated they would provide bilateral loans to the imf, which would give it more resources without collecting money from reluctant members like the united states. the final g20 statement said the imf should work in the next three months on a special account that could be earmarked for the eurozone. that way countries like the united states, which think europe should pay for its own financial problems, would not have to put any money in. and countries like russia and brazil, which have expressed interested in helping the eurozone, could. the statement also said the imf should work out a way to issue more special drawing rights, or sdrs, the fund's own reserve currency that can be exchanged for cash with central banks around the world. sdrs can just be created and do not require new commitments from imf member states. finance ministers will now have to work out the details of these measures. french president nicolas sarkozy said the g-20 would next deal with the topic in february. with their own finances already stretched from bailing out greece, ireland and portugal and traditional allies like the united states wrestling with their own problems eurozone countries were looking to the imf to use its resources and rescue experience to help prevent the debt crisis from spreading to large economies like italy and spain. "every day that the eurozone crisis continues, every day it isn't resolved, is a day that has a chilling effect on the rest of the world economy," british prime minister david cameron said.
european central bank cuts interest rates as contagion fears grow but as he announced the rate cut to 1.25% from 1.5%, draghi warned that the euro area was facing an "environment of high uncertainty". and he conceded the current market turbulence is "likely to dampen the pace of economic growth in the second half of the year and beyond." the rate cut took place amid signs that contagion from the greek political turmoil is gaining strength. at one point italy's borrowing costs reached an alarming new high of 6.4%. they later edged back to 6.17% amid signs that the ecb was once again stepping into the market to buy italian bonds. it has spent billions this week defending italy. bnp wrote down its greek debt holdings by 60% and revealed it had sold off €11bn of sovereign bonds. the french bank also said it had cut its exposure to italian government bonds to €12bn from €20bn – but insisted that it had not been selling to the ecb. demonstrating the wide impact that greece's problems are having, the bnp chief executive baudoin prot said: "the new greek debt restructuring plan has adversely impacted this quarter's net income, which, otherwise, is in line with the performances of previous quarters." dutch financial group ing also admitted it had cut its greek, italian, irish, portuguese and spanish sovereign bond holdings by €5.4bn in the last four months. "the escalation of the debt crisis has adversely affected the eurozone," said loynes, who regards the posturing by france and germany late on wednesday – when the idea of greece leaving the eurozone was raised – as a major development. loynes admitted that there was a "huge worry" that other countries could leave the eurozone if greece were to ditch the single currency. "that's been the risk all along. they've been concerned that it would set off a chain of events that would lead to a breakdown in the single currency." he said he believed that even raising the idea of a country exiting the eurozone was "an additional dent in the single currency's chances of survival". the ecb made clear that the decision to step in and buy bonds could not be permanent. it has bought €100bn since august. most are thought to be those issued by italy and spain. draghi said the bond buying programme was an attempt to avoid a credit crunch. countries would do better to cut their deficits than rely on the central bank to contain their borrowing costs, he warned. "it is pointless to think sovereign bond rates could be brought down for an extended period of time by outside interventions," said draghi.
mf global's missing funds attract scrutiny of regulators instead mf global filed for bankruptcy on monday, the eighth-largest corporate bankruptcy in us history and the biggest failure by a securities firm since lehman brothers collapsed in 2008. the firm listed listed $39bn (£24bn) in liabilities. regulators are reportedly examining whether mf diverted customer funds to support its own trades as it teetered on the brink of collapse. it is unclear how much money is missing. according to the new york times as much as $950m was believed to have been unidentified at one point but that figure has now been scaled back to $700m. there are no allegations of wrongdoing. "while we are unable to determine the precise scope of the firm's violation at this time, we are investigating the circumstances of the firm's failure," cme's chief executive, craig donohue, said. mf global went under after making a series of risky bets on the european credit crisis buying up big holdings of debt from spain, italy, portugal, belgium and ireland at a discount. the size of the investments – believed to total $6.3bn — led two ratings agencies to cut their ratings on the firm to junk last week. investors demanded the firm put up more cash to cover potential losses, something mf global was unable to do. regulators had warned mf global in september that it was overvaluing some of its european debt investments and told the company to raise more cash, according to court papers filed on monday. the collapse of is a major embarrassment for corzine, who arrived at mf global after more than a decade in politics, including serving as a democratic senator for new jersey corzine, former chief executive of goldman sachs, took over mf global in march of last year with a mission to turn the sleepy brokerage firm into a mini goldman sachs. the banker made his name as a bond trader and risk taker and increased the number of bets the firm made using its own capital. mf global's demise has so far had little impact on global markets, unlike lehman's bankruptcy which triggered panic in markets around the world and deepening a global financial crisis.
groupon's share offering loses its allure groupon founder andrew mason has had a lot of explaining to do this week as he met investors hoping to get them on board for a flotation of his online discounts company. regulators criticised its accounts, top execs quit and critics piled in. groupon pulled plans for one of the biggest initial public offerings in years. now it's back with a discount price offer of its own. perhaps as soon as friday mason, 30, is hoping to sell 30m shares, or less than a 5% stake, at between $16 and $18 each, raising up to $540m, according to a regulatory filing. the price will value groupon at about $10.8bn – half what it was supposed to be worth at the start of the year. it also means mason is no longer a paper billionaire, at the new price his share in the company is worth $844m at the top end of the range. to listen to mason's critics, the firm and his holding are not even worth that. some 30 million people worldwide subscribe to groupon's daily deals email offering discount to local businesses from restaurants to yoga classes. in two years it has become by far and away the leader in its category and has expanded to 43 countries. "netflix has subscribers, lovefilm has subscribers, they are paying customers. groupon has an email list.fewer than 30 million people have bought a groupon ever. and all you know about those people is that they are prepared to buy something at half price, that's not such valuable information. you could get better information from any department store," she said. as far as mulpuru is concerned groupon is a company that is about to hit a wall, growth is slowing and growth was all it had. "the whole wall street/start-up culture is based on a handful of metrics and a story. people looked at groupon and got all ga ga about this growth rate. it might be costing $1.50 to make $1 but look at the growth," she said. after all its recent setbacks she said investors may be thinking: "at $20bn it was totally ridiculous, at $10bn, well maybe andrew mason is the new jeff bezos [amazon's founder], he didn't really have a plan to start off with," she said. "well good luck with that." many of groupon's problem are of its own making. two seasoned executives, one from yahoo, the other from google, have quit the chief operating officer role in the last 18 months. the latest, former google sales vice president margo georgiadis, resigned after five months and her departure coincided with groupon's announcement that it was restating its revenue dropping it by around half. then mason ran into trouble with regulators after he wrote a 2,500-word email to the staff defending groupon against critics that was leaked to the press in what some argued was a violation of the "quiet period" rules that surround companies planning an ipo. the company had to pull its original ipo plans. but other larger forces have also been at work as the european financial crisis has rocked stock markets across the world and reigned in many other ipos. david sinsky, general manager of data at yipit, a site that aggregates daily deals from a variety of providers, believes there is plenty of room for growth for groupon. "there are a lot of opportunities for this company," he says. "local merchants are very happy with their daily deals. more than 70% are happy with their experience, according to our research," he said. in the last quarter they have expanded into new categories, including music in a deal with concert promotions group live nation, and shown they can grow quickly in new areas. the problem is that no one knows yet what that growth is worth, said sinsky. anyone can set up a rival to groupon and unfortunately for them those anyone include amazon and its former suitor google, which beefed up it rival service this week. groupon has been promoting groupon now! a mobile service that the company said would prove its "most important innovation to date" when it launched in may. but according to siskind's report: "now! generated just $1m of gross billings in september, despite being available in 25 markets – only $40k per market. in other words, the product that groupon is telling investors to view as the future of the company, still represents less than 1% of groupon's total gross billings in north america." in happier times promise of performance might have been enough to whet the appetite of investors. massive growth and, at best, minimal profits is a common theme for tech firms. very few turn out to be google, far more turn out to be webvan, an online grocery business that went bankrupt in 2001. thanks to the latest global financial crisis last year's dotcom bubble seems to have burst before it was blown. when – and if – groupon goes public, its reception will be a big test for the new generation of tech stars. groupon's discount offer might be catching.
greek government on brink as referendum call triggers market slump the greek government appears to be on the point of collapse after prime minister george papandreou's call for a referendum on greece's massive bailout triggered a sell-off on world stock markets. papandreou's move caught european leaders and even greece's finance minister evangelos venizelos – papandreou's deputy – by surprise. venizelos has been checked into a clinic suffering stomach pains. in new york the dow closed down 297 points, or 2.97%, as us markets ended a month-long winning steak with their second day of loses. the picture was worse in europe where germany's dax closed down 5.0%, the french cac lost 5.38% and in london the ft-se lost 2.2%. the big losers were the banks, especially those with large exposure to greece. societe generale plunged by 15.4%, while intesa sanpaulo lost 14.4%. the greek parliament held an emergency cabinet meeting after members called for papandreou to resign. six senior members who sit on the ruling pasok party's national council are threatening to break away and proclaim themselves independents, a move which rob papandreou of a working majority in the 300-seat house. "it's all over. the government is about to collapse," an official told the guardian. papandreou will proceed with plans for a referendum on the greek financing package, government spokesman angelos tolkas said in statements carried live on state-run net tv. in order to put the bailout to the vote, he must first pass a vote of confidence on friday. officials said the meeting will discuss "full implementation" of the agreement reached in brussels last week. at the weekend european leaders persuaded banks to take a 50% cut on greek debts, a move that sparked rallies on stock markets around the world. in a statement, sarkozy's office said: "france and germany are determined to ensure, with their european partners, the full implementation in the quickest timeframe the decisions adopted at the summit – which are today more important than ever." the news from greece has already had a knock-on effect in italy, widely seen as potentially the biggest threat to the fragile eurozone. the latest chapter in the greek crisis sent italy's cost of borrowing to highs unseen since the creation of the euro. italy has debts of €1.8tn – about 120% of its gross domestic product – and the rise will add yet more pressure to a government in a process of "constant refinancing," said elisabeth asfeth, fixed income analyst at evolution securities. she said papandreou's suggestion of a referendum, to be held in january, was "a gamble gone wrong. it's difficult to see what exactly you would vote for. there doesn't seem to be an alternative move." paul ashworth, us economist at capital economics, said the us stock markets had had a good month up until 24 hours ago. but the news from greece was threatening what has been a record run on the dow and other us markets. "the s&p is down 5% since lunchtime yesterday: that's significant," he said. the yields on 10-year us treasury bonds – traditionally seen as a safe bet investment – have also collapsed, as nervous investors have poured money into the bonds. the us federal reserve is meeting on tuesday and wednesday to discuss what moves, if any, it can make to shore up the us's fragile economic recovery. fed chairman ben bernanke is due to make a statement on wednesday. ashworth said he doubts anything that bernanke can do or say will top whatever news is coming out of europe. "it's all about europe," he said.
spooks, suspicion and slumps, the harsh reality of investing in china the fidelity money manager, below, who launched the firm's china special situations fund to retail investors two years ago, has seen assets shrink by more than 17% since inception while the fund's shares have plunged 21%, significantly underperforming the benchmark msci china index, which has dropped by 13%. some of the big losses have been caused by selling out of so-called chinese "reverse merger stocks", including two companies accused of malpractice. in a presentation to explain the fund's interim results bolton said: "we now use five firms which specialise in this sort of due diligence to check these firms out." the line was immediately interpreted as an admission of having hired corporate intelligence groups such as kroll, although fidelity would not elaborate on the comments or provide names of the third parties used. one corporate investigations source, who would not be named, said: "by 'due diligence' firms he means spooks. there are a small number who specialise in china: control risks, kroll, i-onasia and steve vickers associates [the eponymous firm set up by the former head of kroll in asia]." bolton also admitted to being taken by surprise at the level of corporate governance in some chinese companies as he outlined his report on the fund's performance over the six months to 30 september. "the few weeks leading up to the end of september have been a brutal period for asian markets – as difficult a time to be running money as i can remember…" he said. "i am sorry to report that the combination of the very difficult stock market background, the company's exposure to the more volatile medium and smaller capitalisation chinese stocks and the company's gearing has produced some very poor performance figures." "i can give no excuse," he said. in the six months, the fund's net asset value has slumped by 28.9%, against a decline in the value of the msci china index of 24.5%. the new china fund started well, launching at a share price of 100p in april 2010 and rising to a peak of 128.7p on 9 november 2010. but since then it has fallen in value and closed on monday at 78.97p. in other words, someone who put £10,000 into the fund at launch now holds an investment worth £7,897. the identity of bolton's second reverse merger stock suspected of fraud remains a mystery. reverse mergers – also called reverse takeovers – relate to the acquisition of a public company by a private company and enable the private company to bypass the lengthy and complex process of going public. a number of chinese companies have used this tactic to gain a us listing. despite all the setbacks, the fund manager refuses to change his strategy, and said: "the most important reason that i remain optimistic about stock markets is my contrarian nature. at the beginning of october sentiment became about as negative as i've seen it. however, valuations are very attractive versus history and hong kong directors' purchases of shares are the second highest they've been in the last 11 years (only higher in 2008). everywhere risk is off. markets normally move to prove the majority wrong. i believe a strong market recovery is likely over the next few months."
the readers' editor on... the removal of share prices from the financial pages another said: "now i have no reason to feel depressed (usually) or smug (occasionally) over the breakfast table when i look at what i laughingly describe as my 'portfolio'." at the time of writing there have been more than 50 complaints to the office of the readers' editor. broadly, their concerns represent a particular guardian demographic, outlined here: taking the last point: no, it does not herald the demise of the printed paper. this is another typical letter from a reader: "i have been a guardian reader all my adult life, but now you have removed the ftse 100 closing prices from the financial section i am considering whether finally to leave. "i know that you have to cut costs to keep going, but do not cut the basics. surely it does not cost too much to publish this data? the commentary without the data is a waste of time and space. the ftse 100 closing prices are the backbone of the whole of the financial section. by removing this data you are removing a habit of a lifetime, which is to quickly check in the morning whether my shares have gone up or down. please reinstate." one of the features of the broader changes in the guardian in the last few years has been a move away from the principle of keeping stories such as sport or business in separate "silos". it has been accompanied by a move to slightly fewer stories, written in greater depth, on the big issues of the day. share prices have been dropped from print to make way for other stories, as have the unit trust prices. this is obviously difficult for a section of the readership, but there is a need for change in the face of deepening economic pressures and the changing ways in which the bulk of our readership, across print and web, consumes journalism. one thing we could, and should, do better is announce and explain the changes in advance. i regret that we did not do this.
markets hit by european debt crisis as threat of eurozone breakup persists the ongoing financial turmoil saw the ftse 100 in london open nearly 100 points lower at 5360.19. asian markets also fell, with japan's nikkei closing down 2.9% while hong kong's hang seng lost nearly 5% and singapore's straits times shed 3.1%. in the bond markets, the yield – or interest rate – on italy's 10-year bonds traded around 7.3%, close to the record highs hit on wednesday. the yield on spain's 10-year debt increased to 5.9%, nearer to the "danger zone" where countries risk losing the confidence of the financial markets. brent crude oil dipped below $112 a barrel as the escalating european debt crisis overshadowed robust demand for oil from china. spot silver shed nearly 2% to $33.40 an ounce. china's foreign ministry expressed hope on thursday that european countries would overcome their difficulties. ministry spokesman hong lei added that china also hoped europe would stabilise financial markets and push for economic recovery and growth. gary jenkins, head of fixed income at evolution securities, said: "italy had a particularly bad round on wednesday and it may prove to have been a seminal event in european history." he added: "italy is too big to bail, which leaves us with the nuclear options of getting the printing presses working overtime or common bond issuance as we head towards a fiscal union. neither option is politically palatable and both would be in breach of existing treaty agreements, but then rules have been twisted before and a treaty change may be a lot more palatable than a eurozone in which the largest debtor and third-largest economy cannot access markets and the eu (and the financial system) collapses."
us stock markets plummet on italian debt worries the losses followed two days of gains on us markets after investors reacted positively to news from greece that it was pushing ahead with europe's bailout plans. after all the major european stock markets had closed down, the dow jones industrial average closed at 11780.94, 389.24 points lower, or 3.2%, its biggest one-day slide since september 22. the standard & poor's 500-stock index fell 46.82 points, or 3.7%, to 1229.10, while the nasdaq composite declined 105.84 points, or 3.9%, to 2621.65. ablin said the sell-off continued after the european markets had closed and that he would expect asian and european markets to open down on thursday as investors absorb the news from italy. financial firms were particularly hard hit by the sell-off. morgan stanley's shares fell 9% while jp morgan fell 7.1%. the us government and the banks have dismissed concerns that us banks have large direct exposures to europe's debt woes. but investors seem spooked, especially after the collapse of mf global, a broker run by former goldman sachs boss and new jersey governor jon corzine. mf global declared bankruptcy after making a series of bad bets on european debts. lance roberts of broker street talk advisers said there could be worse to come. us stock markets rallied through october but he believes that was due in large part to technical reasons. pension funds and other large investment vehicles had sold too much stock and in order to balance their portfolios had to buy more shares, he said. "well we've run through that course," roberts said. "if you strip out the crisis news, the world economic view is not good. europe is in a recession, china is going too slow, and the us will follow," he said. "i don't see a positive way out of this: we have no leadership in washington or europe. the only solution they come up with is creating more debt to deal with a problem that was created by more debt."
vodafone becomes ftse's top dividend payer as it hands shareholders £6.7bn vodafone group has seized shell's crown as the biggest payer of dividends in the ftse 100, with a total of £6.7bn to be handed to shareholders this financial year as the british mobile phone network passes on cash received from its us subsidiary. vodafone will account for £1 in every £8 in dividend from the blue chip index, or 13% of the £51bn announced by companies for the year ending march 2012. shell has promised £5.6bn, and hsbc £5bn. it will now pay out £4.7bn in ordinary dividends this financial year, plus a further £2bn in january after collecting its first distribution in six years from verizon wireless, the largest us network, which is 45% owned by vodafone. the vodafone contribution is almost on a par with bp's before the gulf of mexico disaster when the oil major accounted for 14% of all uk dividends by itself. although the cash from verizon wireless is not listed as a recurring dividend, vodafone is advising that a similar payment is likely to come next year. the group saw global subscribers rise 2.5% to reach 391 million in the six months to 30 september, compared with the same period last year, with the biggest recruitment waves coming from india, egypt, and african subsidiary vodacom. chief executive vittorio colao welcomed a rebalancing of the company's income, away from saturated european markets and falling voice call revenues and towards faster growth emerging markets and increased use of data services for mobile internet. he said: "vodafone is becoming a little more an emerging market company and a little bit less a european company." in the uk, where the largest player, everything everywhere, has lost customers in recent quarters, vodafone added 325,000 subscribers to reach 19.3m. these include 244,000 transferred from talk mobile, a virtual network previously run by carphone warehouse which used vodafone's network. talk's customers have now been acquired by the operator for an undisclosed sum. analysts had forecast pre-tax profits would rise to £7.40bn, but the group delivered a 2.3% rise to £7.5bn compared with the same period last year. vodafone raised expectations for the full year, saying operating profit would be between £11.4 and £11.8bn, at the higher range indicated by the company in may.
greek leaders agree to unity government as future hangs in balance greece's economic and political future – and with it the fate of the eurozone – hung in the balance on sunday after its political leaders announced that the formation of a government of national unity would have to wait until monday morning at the earliest – well after global financial markets had opened. amid fears of the crisis worsening and the political situation in debt-laden italy further imperilling the single currency, party heads in near-bankrupt greece said while agreement had been reached on an interim coalition government, further talks were required on the new administration's life span and who would lead it. but with no firm details on who would take over, the markets are braced for more volatility, ahead of the eurozone finance ministers' meeting at which the politicians will begin a search for new sources of capital to boost the area's main bailout fund to €1tn after the us and emerging powers refused to commit fresh funds at the g20 summit last week. the two-hour meeting at the presidential palace was the first real breakthrough in the political deadlock that has gripped athens since papandreou met papoulias on saturday, and announced that he would try to form a broad-based administration that would steer the country through its worst crisis in modern times. the new government would pave the way to "immediate elections" once it had achieved its goal of securing last month's €130bn bailout package for greece – an aid deal that has been greeted furiously by austerity-weary greeks but is widely seen as the eurozone's main weapon against the debt-stricken nation defaulting and bringing down the rest of the union with it. senior politicians from the ruling pasok party and conservative new democracy continued talks late into the night. papandreou and samaras will reconvene on monday. the talks came after papandreou held his last cabinet meeting as prime minister and samaras stepped up pressure on his political opponent to stand aside. disagreement over who should succeed the 59-year-old scion of greece's most famous political dynasty was cited as the main stumbling block despite the threat of a greek exit from the eu if athens failed, posthaste, to approve the controversial debt deal hammered out in brussels in october. capturing the urgency of the situation, the mass-selling sunday kathimerini appealed for a new government to be sworn in by monday to "avert bankruptcy and the return to the drachma". "at this point we don't care about faces," it opined in a font-page editorial. "the circumstances, our partners and most of all the greek people, demand that a government of national salvation be formed by tomorrow am." officials in brussels say the creation of a government that would represent greece's entire political spectrum is essential if the eu-imf backed bailout is to be implemented along with the painful austerity measures it will inevitably entail. for the first time since joining the then european economic community in 1981, greece was told last week that its membership of the bloc was at stake if it failed, within weeks, to ratify the rescue plan. "we have called for a national unity government and remain persuaded that it is the convincing way of restoring confidence and meeting the commitments," said eu economic and monetary affairs commissioner olli rehn. since greece was forced to go cap in hand to the eu and imf for rescue funds 18 months ago, its warring political parties have come under enormous pressure to overcome their differences and agree on a common strategy to solve the debt crisis. evangelos venizelos, the greek finance minister who also holds the post of deputy premier, has likened the country's predicament to a matter of life or death, "of remaining in the eurozone, as a member of the developed world, or going back to the 1960s." last week venizelos admitted that athens' finances were hanging by a thread with public coffers due to run out of cash by mid-december. bankruptcy would have a massive impact across the eurozone. international figures, including imf managing director christine lagarde, have pressed upon athens the need for political consensus before lenders part with more loans. "at the imf's annual meeting in washington, the first thing lagarde emphasised in talks with venizelos was the need for consensus," a top aide to the minister said. "she asked him bluntly, 'what greece am i talking to, the one who endorses reforms, who accepts austerity or the one who doesn't?' she was very concerned by the stance of the political opposition, especially the [main opposition] conservative party which has repeatedly refused to endorse the [eu-imf] fiscal adjustment programmes." greece received a €110bn bailout in may 2010 with the latest aid package writing off half of the country's €360bn debt load. the hard-won accord had met widespread fury in greece where many fear it will mean further austerity. last week samaras argued it would condemn the country, whose economy has contracted by nearly 16% since mid 2009, to "a decade of deeper recession". under fire from his own pasok party, papandreou began the quest for a "national salvation" government after narrowly winning a confidence vote on friday. "i am not tied to my chair," he declared after formally launching the push. but his refusal to articulate his intent clearly until sunday night cast a shadow over negotiations. samaras said papandreou had to resign "to unblock" the deadlock. "as long as mr papandreou doesn't resign he is blocking what is foreseen by the constitution. i am determined to help as long as he resigns and everything takes its course," the main opposition leader declared. four candidates are reportedly being considered for the post of prime minister including petros molyviatos, a former conservative foreign minister, and loukas papademou, the erstwhile vice-president of the european central bank. officials said the new premier would be named when eurozone finance ministers meet in brussels on monday to discuss greece's plight. papandreou has faced growing calls to step down at home and abroad since shocking markets and world leaders with an ill-timed decision, announced last monday, to put the october bailout agreement to a popular vote.
groupon share price soars after ipo the huge investor demand in groupon is in part due to the tiny slice of the company on offer. groupon's 5% share offering makes it the smallest ipo of the past decade, according to capital markets data provider ipreo. "they wanted to have a decent pop on the stock so they didn't take that much public," said david berman, a consumer technology and retail specialist at hedge fund firm durban capital. "they created demand by limiting supply, and they got the pop." mason's stake in groupon is now worth $1.3bn, while co-founder eric lefkofsky owns a $3.6bn stake. early investors, including morgan stanley investment management and fidelity, stand to reap dividends from their $8 a share early stakes in the company. at $13bn, groupon has a price tag worth double the amount google reportedly offered for the discount firm last year. it remains to be seen how groupon's shares will fare in the long term – and in spite of further scepticism over its high acquisition price for customers – compared with linkedin. on friday the professional social networking site was trading at almost double its ipo price range of $45 a share.
ecb puts emergency plans in place as german banks feel the heat following european-wide "stress tests", germany's banks were found to need more than double the amount of capital anticipated, with the focus immediately turning on commerzbank, in which the german state already owns a 25% stake, and amid speculation the government may need to step in with a fresh capital injection. any further signs of weakness among the major banks will increase fears that europe is in the grip of a fresh credit crunch — where banks refuse to lend to each other and to businesses. but draghi, after chairing only his second ecb meeting, disappointed bond markets by playing down the idea that the central bank would step in with a radical rescue plan for spain and italy. yields on italian and spanish government bonds jumped – with italian yields pushing back above the unsustainable 6.5%. draghi said the markets had frozen in a similar way to the weeks after lehman brothers collapsed in september 2008 and stressed that the ecb had similar liquidity facilities to those in place after the wall street bank failed – but that the funds were not circulating in financial markets. the scale of the emergency measures, which also included a cut in the reserve ratios that banks are required to deposit with the ecb, from 2% to 1% from january, underlined how concerned the ecb has become about the risk of a credit crunch taking hold. funding costs for banks have already risen sharply as the eurozone financial crisis has worsened. draghi said the "non-standard measures" were aimed at helping to unfreeze lending to households and businesses. "these measures should ensure enhanced access of the banking sector to liquidity and facilitate the functioning of the euro area money market. they are expected to support the provision of credit to households and non-financial corporations." since the initial results of the stress tests in october, banks have been shrinking balance sheets and selling off assets to bolster their capital, and the eba made it clear on thursday that it is concerned that banks do not exacerbate the downturn by restricting credit to businesses and individuals as they repair capital cushions. draghi said tensions in financial markets presented the greatest risk to europe's economy: "intensified financial tensions are continuing to dampen the economic outlook," he warned, as the ecb slashed its eurozone growth forecast for 2012. it is now expecting something between a 0.4% contraction and 1% growth. even so, draghi admitted that the ecb's governing council was not unanimous in deciding to administer a second interest rate cut in two months, to 1%, despite having raised rates only in july on concerns about inflation. chris williamson, of data provider markit, said: "despite inflation running stubbornly higher than the ecb's 2% target, holding at 3% in october, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the region is sliding back into recession." of the 71 banks tested by the eba, 37 need to plug a shortfall to meet a threshold of a 9% core tier one capital, a key measure of financial strength. while it was already known that the uk's banks had passed, individual results showed that barclays' ratio was 9.8%, hsbc's 10% and the bailed-out banks lloyds banking group and royal bank of scotland 10.1% and 10.5% respectively. those banks with shortfalls have been given until 20 january to present their proposals to their regulators and must find ways to fill gaps without leading to a "reduced flow of lending to the eu's real economy". the eba reiterated that they should reduce bonuses and retain their profits to bolster their capital before attempting assets sales. efforts already announced by french banks reduced their shortfall by €1.5bn to €7.3bn.
media square suspends shares on london stock exchange media square, the marketing services group chaired by former johnston press chairman roger parry, has suspended trading on the stockmarket after failing to negotiate urgent funds from its bank. the company said it has been operating with "limited headroom" against its banking facilities and needed additional funds to get it through a seasonal peak. at the start of december the company – which has been hit by a £100,000 bad debt after the collapse of us brokerage client mf global – entered negotiations for bank funding and "certain revisions to its existing covenant regime". "the company's bank has now informed the board that it cannot commit to amending the company's banking covenants, and furthermore will not extend the facilities available to the company at this stage," said media square. "as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the company's banking facilities, the company has requested that its shares are suspended pending further clarification of its financial position."
ftse makes room for more russians two russian companies dominated by multibillionaire eastern european businessmen are expected to be promoted to the ftse 100 this month. their imminent promotion has raised questions about corporate governance and the increasing sway of foreign firms in the city. city shareholders are not happy about the entry of the russian groups as they tend to dislike firms where big stakeholders hold the whip hand, as it reduces their influence. in the past, there have been questions about whether standards of corporate governance at foreign-controlled firms, such as the natural resources groups vedanta and eurasian natural resources corporation (enrc), meet basic requirements. critics have blamed london's "light-touch" approach to regulation for allowing in so many overseas companies, some from countries without a functioning democracy. eric chalker, director of the uk shareholders' association, which represents retail investors, said the link between the ftse and uk investors had been largely broken. "the index no longer broadly reflects british business interests; to a great extent uk investors have become detached from their investments. factors which affect share prices are often invisible to shareholders, as they are connected to events that happen far away and may be affected by foreign political considerations," he said. he also criticised the role played by derivatives speculators who gamble on share price movements "and aren't really interested in the long-term well-being of the business where they have an interest." chalker believes investors should be encouraged to invest in british companies and that indices such as the ftse "should be more orientated towards the needs of uk firms". data from the accountants deloitte shows the ftse is increasingly made up of non-british firms with 12 big foreign groups, including the miners xstrata, enrc and kazakhmys joining the index since 2001. more than 30% of the index is made up of resources companies, and many of those are domiciled outside the uk. robert talbut, chief investment officer of royal london asset management, does not have a problem with the ftse representing a wide international mix of groups, as this gives the london "more vibrancy and diversity, which is a good thing". but he does take issue with firms offering a relatively small free float – the pool of available shares that can be acquired by investors. the financial services authority (fsa), which acts as the uk listing authority, requires a minimum free float of 25% but talbut says many investors think it should be closer to 50%. there were raised eyebrows in may when the once secretive swiss commodities group glencore launched the biggest ever ipo in london but floated only 12% of the shares. the fsa agreed with glencore's argument that there were certain mitigating factors that allowed it to get away with such a small free float. talbut says: "there is a view that if an [overseas] company lists in london, we should ensure the highest standards of corporate governance are followed and make certain the interests of minority shareholders are protected." there was uproar in june when two independent directors were ousted from the board of enrc by controlling shareholders that included two kazakh millionaires and the kazakhstan government.
eurozone warned of credit downgrades after germany and france strike deal   merkel and sarkozy called for the lisbon treaty to be reopened to facilitate the new eurozone deal but both agreed that if it ran into insuperable resistance, the 17 countries of the eurozone would themselves forge a new euro pact. although the announcement in paris brought instant relief for the beleaguered euro, the pressure on the currency was short lived as rumours of the s&p action swirled just before the us markets shut. the dow jones closed up 78 points, giving up much of a 167-point gain it had made earlier in the day. until then, the costs of borrowing for italy and spain fell by half a percentage point or more, while the stock markets rallied and the euro strengthened against the dollar. earlier, mario monti, the new italian prime minister, had unveiled his radical austerity package entailing €30bn (£26bn) of savings and warned italy would be the next greece without the drastic action. s&p is reviewing 15 of the 17 eurozone credit ratings, and has promised to conclude its review as quickly as possible after this week's summit. much of the market's focus will be on the six top-rated countries, particularly germany, whose aaa status had not been thought to be in doubt before monday night. merkel and sarkozy said the new eurozone regime would be punitive, with automatic sanctions levied against countries breaching budget deficit limits. this was a concession for sarkozy, who risks howls of criticism in france that he is surrendering parliamentary and governmental sovereignty over the french budget. eurozone leaders mustering a qualified majority of 85%, however, would be able to block the sanctions, sarkozy said. that will allow him to claim that national democratic legitimacy has prevailed, although this looks unlikely. the franco-german pact presents david cameron with a dilemma: whether to support treaty change at the summit of all 27 countries so the uk has a say in what happens, or let the 17 get on with it and face being marginalised. if the lisbon treaty is reopened, cameron has to tread carefully between tory backbenchers who could exploit the opportunity to refashion the uk relationship with the eu, and most of the rest of the eu, who are wary of getting bogged down in a row about what britain wants. in brussels, however, officials speculated that the changes might be possible within the framework of the lisbon treaty. the german victory on automatic penalties for deficit sinners came on top of a joint call, also a german demand, for legally enshrined debt brakes in all eurozone countries, geared to ensuring balanced budgets, with the european court of justice charged with ruling on individual governments' practices. this appeared to be a more restrictive role for the court than merkel had wanted, however. in yet another u-turn by france, sarkozy said there was no case for pooling eurozone debt and issuing collective debt instruments known as eurobonds – a german red line. "what a strange idea – harmonising the debt," said sarkozy. the summit was preceded in france by a chorus of bitter anti-german rhetoric from the left and the far right, putting sarkozy in a difficult position six months before he bids for a second presidential term. "those who speak like that are in opposition," said merkel. "let's be happy it's us in government and not them." while both leaders agreed for the first time to rule out eurobonds, they were also poised to turn a blind eye to expanded intervention in the crisis by the european central bank, emphasising they would not comment on what the ecb chose to do. the ecb's short-term role will be critical to whether the euro can be stabilised and whether the new blueprint for a so-called fiscal union is given the time to work. while the overall package was largely scripted in berlin, merkel delivered one major concession, abjuring losses for private investors in sovereign debt crises. under pressure from france, the ecb and the european commission, she agreed private investors in eurozone debt would not be forced to accept losses in the event of a default or bailout, with the exception of greece where "haircuts" for the banks and private investors were agreed last july. in an unexpected move, berlin and paris called for the eurozone permanent bailout fund, the european stability mechanism, to be launched next year rather than in 2013 as previously planned. the package is to be turned into a formal joint proposal to be handed to herman van rompuy, the european council president, who is chairing the eu summit on thursday and friday. it falls to him to twist arms and to get the rest of the eu and eurozone to support the package. a big sticking point will be merkel's insistence on renegotiating the lisbon treaty, with many member states fearing that will mean opening a can of worms, sparking a lengthy acrimonious bout of horse-trading. the irish government will be particularly anxious as it may have to stage a referendum on the revised treaty, potentially derailing the entire scheme. ireland faces more heavy cuts in public spending next year, with welfare and health departments taking the brunt of the pain under the country's latest austerity budget outlined on monday. ireland's public expenditure and reform minister, brendan howlin, said spending would be cut by 2.7%, amounting to €1.4bn (£1.2bn) of reductions, in the first part of a budget which will continue with announcements on tax increases from the finance minister michael noonan on tuesday.
vince cable's review backs end to quarterly reports to stock markets the review into the city's short-term outlook is a core tenet of a liberal democrat agenda to promote a more responsible and effective capitalism. the aim is to restore equity markets to what is seen as their role as the most efficient way of allocating capital for wealth creation. the kay review has been told that "long-term incentive pay packages" in practice frequently cover fewer than three years. cable would like the kay review to recommend five or so clear proposals, rather than simply produce an academic treatise into a widely discussed subject. it will also examine the role of intermediary investors, shareholders' voting rights in company takeovers and why unlisted companies appear to have more patient investors. in a sign that business and investors would like to see curbs on "quarterly capitalism", the cbi, the national association of pension funds and the investment management association have urged kay to propose curbs to frequent reporting requirements. relaxation of the rules is also being proposed by the eu. the ima told kay: "us research highlights that quarterly reports encourage short-term thinking and discourage long-term investment on the basis they could impact quarterly performance. over time, this erodes value creation and economic performance. uk public companies are required to issue two interim management statements, as well as half-year and full-year accounts. whilst this is less onerous than quarterly reporting, we feared it was a step in this direction and we understand that a number of listed companies provide quarterly updates on performance. "provided companies are required to disclose promptly new developments, long-term investors do not need reports more frequently than every six months." the cbi also told kay: "quarterly reporting is onerous and adds little value for most investors. given that companies have an obligation to report significant issues to the market as they arise, six-monthly reporting is sufficient to make judgments on the performance of businesses." the napf in its submission states: "there is a strong sense among our members that quarterly results reporting and trading updates bring excessive focus to the short term with little or no benefit for the long term investor". the institute of directors in its submission cited research showing more than 75% of executives admitted to sacrificing added value to smooth out reported earnings and satisfy city analysts. the kay review is also looking at the role of agents and the difficulty in identifying company's shareholders.
stock markets slump as euro hits 11-month low against the dollar stock markets slumped and the euro hit a fresh 11-month low against the dollar amid renewed fears that europe will be forced to rescue italy and spain from a lending boycott by international investors. the ftse index of britain's top 100 companies dropped 2.25% to lead falls on continental exchanges and the us markets in a day of volatile trading. france's cac 40 was the worst performer among major european indexes, falling 3.3%, followed by italy's ftse mib, which dropped 2.8%. investors singled out italy for more pain as they sent the interest rate on the all-important 10-year bond past 7% to hit 7.17%. the euro fell to $1.30, the lowest since january. french lenders société générale, bnp paribas and credit agricole fell between 6.7% and 8% as rumours persisted that the extent of their bad loans to indebted eurozone countries would lead to france losing its aaa status within the next few days. credit agricole, which gave a second profits warning this year, said it would record a €2.5bn (£2.09bn) loss this year, chiefly due to writedowns in its investment banking unit, and it would not pay a dividend in order to retain capital. analysts warned that italy would be forced to turn to brussels for bailout funds unless member states agreed a more coherent rescue package with more firepower to protect the currency union. an agreement last week to move towards greater harmonisation of fiscal rules initially pleased markets but in recent days investors have viewed the deal as weak and subject to wrangling and delay. another key element of the deal, an agreement to boost the international monetary fund through €200bn in bilateral loans from eu central banks, has also run into trouble. jens weidmann, germany's central bank chief, threatened to boycott the move unless non-eurozone imf contributors, such as the us and britain, also provided additional loans. in a letter to the german finance minister, he insisted that the german contribution of €43bn has to be endorsed by the german parliament. analysts tobias blattner and emily nicol of daiwa capital markets said: "with the us, uk, canada and japan already having ruled out an increase in their lending to the imf, comments by weidmann appear to kill off the €200bn of additional imf resources promised last week." they added that the dire situation with the euro and the flight of savings to safe havens means "a downgrade by standard & poor's of most of the euro area's sovereign and bank credit ratings looks increasingly likely". the regional government in catalonia and italy's largest bank added to the confusion after they appeared to undermine the thrust of policies agreed in brussels. federico ghizzoni, the chief executive of italian bank unicredit, said calls for banks to use cheap loans from the european central bank to buy italian debt were misguided. he said unicredit, the largest bank by value in italy, would not use the extra liquidity aimed at lowering their borrowing costs to buy government bonds.
olympus meets deadline to avoid tokyo delisting olympus submitted revised earnings reports wednesday, meeting a deadline to avoid being removed from the tokyo stock exchange. it still risks getting delisted later on because of an accounting scandal. the piles of documents for the reports dating back five years were accepted by financial regulators three hours before the deadline expired. the tokyo bourse has the final say in deciding whether to boot out the once prestigious japanese camera and medical equipment maker, and is still investigating the company's dubious accounting. woodford, a 51-year-old briton and a rare foreigner to lead a major japanese company, was fired in october after confronting top olympus executives. he returned to japan this week to meet with investors and lawmakers and to try to lead a turnaround at olympus. last month, he visited to meet police and other investigators. woodford has said he wants to fix olympus and has expressed hopes shareholders will back him. woodford has also repeatedly said that he hopes olympus will not be delisted. olympus did not have an immediate comment. president shuichi takayama has scheduled a news conference for thursday to go over the earnings filings. olympus has said the cover-up losses were recouped over the years. the company reported in its corrected documentation a loss of ¥32.3bn for the first half of the fiscal year, through september, a reversal from a ¥3.8bn profit the same period a year earlier. takayama, who took helm after the scandal broke, has said woodford lacks the right teamwork style to lead the company, although now acknowledges the positive side of woodford's whistleblowing. olympus initially denied any wrongdoing and lambasted woodford. it is still unclear if woodford will manage a comeback. some people, such as former board member koji miyata, see him as a hero and have begun an online campaign to bring back woodford. a date has not yet been set for a general shareholders meeting. the scandal has prompted soul-searching in japan on living up to global standards in governance. some experts say laws need to be updated, corporate boards need more outside members and transparency needs to be strengthened. ruling and opposition legislators met woodford to hear his ideas about better corporate practices. no one has been charged in the scandal. but olympus management has said several top company men were involved in the scheme and has promised to investigate 70 officials, including former and current executives and auditors, to pursue possible criminal charges. a third-party panel set up by olympus, including a former japanese supreme court judge, released the findings of an investigation earlier this month, which said top executives who were "rotten to the core" had orchestrated the accounting cover-up spanning three decades. the fees for financial advice and overvalued acquisitions were part of an elaborate deception utilising overseas banks and several funds to keep the massive losses off the company's books, according to olympus. japanese magazine facta was first to report the dubious money. tsuyoshi kikukawa, who was behind woodford's appointment as chief executive and later his firing, has since resigned as chairman. he is among several executives suspected of knowing about the scheme. last month, olympus dismissed executive vice president hisashi mori, saying he was involved in the cover-up along with kikukawa. a company auditor also resigned. olympus stock plunged after the scandal broke but has since recouped some of those losses. it slipped 4.1% to ¥1,314 in tokyo on wednesday.
italian bond yields soar as strikes raise doubts over monti's austerity cuts italy's government of technocrats was under intense pressure tonight to confront workers involved in a wave of strikes after financial markets drove the cost of state borrowing to crisis levels and confidence in the european union's plan to fix the euro crisis began to evaporate. last week's brussels summit agreed to press ahead with consolidating fiscal policies to ensure all member states met agreed borrowing and spending limits. but the credit-ratings agency moody's said the summit offered "few new measures" to deal with the eurozone's sovereign debt crisis. "the absence of measures to stabilise the credit markets over the short term means that the euro area, and the wider eu, remain prone to further shocks and the cohesion of the euro area [remains] under continued threat," the agency said in a statement. "if they withdrew it, we would face the situation with sang-froid and calm," he told le monde newspaper. speculation that germany's second largest bank, commerzbank, is under financial pressure following a lending spree to indebted countries, were also circulating among traders. the bank is expected to need a rescue bailout by the berlin authorities to prevent its collapse. in london, the ftse fell 1.8% to 5,427, while the dow jones index in new york fell almost 2% to 11,948 by the time london had closed. the frankfurt dax and paris cac both fell more than 2% as investors digested a report that argued the eurozone and the uk were heading into a deeper recession than previously forecast. gerard lyons, chief economist at standard chartered bank and one of the most accurate forecasters in city, warned that the eurozone would contract next year by 1.5%, while the uk would shrink by 1.3%. lyons said that "the mounting crisis" in advanced economies, especially the eurozone, meant the outlook was increasingly gloomy. spain's new right-wing government was also under pressure after spanish bond yields also began to climb. bond yields reflect the cost of borrowing for nations and corporations. in the case of spain and italy, they have climbed sharply since june ahead of an escalation in the greek debt crisis.
pearson to sell ftse stake for £450m pearson is to sell its 50% stake in the ftse international group to the london stock exchange for £450m in cash. the company, owner of the financial times and book publisher penguin, said the sale was part of a shift away from financial data and towards news and analysis. "ftse is a bellwether of global financial markets and a world-class business," said marjorie scardino, chief executive of pearson. "we have enjoyed supporting the company's excellent and highly professional team to build the business. proud as we are of that long association, ftse's strategy is different from our own. we wish it every success as we continue to build our digital business information services around the financial times." pearson said that the deal will enable it to continue to make targeted acquisitions and expand further into non-english language markets. "for pearson, the transaction further strengthens our financial position at a time of significant macroeconomic turbulenc," said scardino. "we are freeing up capital for continued investment in a proven strategy: becoming more digital, more international and more service-oriented in education, business information and consumer publishing." in 2010, ftse reported total revenues of almost £100m and total core earnings of £40m. at 31 december 2010, it had gross assets of £100.8m. pearson and london stock exchange group currently own 50% each of ftse. the transaction is expected to close by the first quarter of 2012. xavier rolet, chief executive of the london stock exchange, said: "fully aligning ftse with one of the world's most liquid and most international trading groups is an exciting opportunity. "immediately earnings enhancing, we expect this transaction to create long-term value and growth for our customers and shareholders."
is david cameron's city a champion of corporate standards? ideally, it should be a place renowned for its integrity, replete with the highest standards of corporate governance, properly regulated, and intolerant of impropriety. but time and again, the city has come up short. during the boom, it enjoyed a climate of "light-touch" regulation – shorthand for saying that as long as you can produce the filthy lucre, you are welcome here. in particular, there is a perception that foreign companies, or firms incorporated in britain but with their roots overseas, seek to float in london merely to gain access to capital. along the way, they pay little more than lip service to the rules and regulations that are more scrupulously followed by their peers. a uk listing confers respectability – a badge of honour, if you like, that overseas companies from delhi to moscow still cherish. but the city must do more if it is to live up to the high ideals that others place on its shoulders. a shake-up of the listing rules is as good a place to start as any. boards buttressed by bloc shareholders with majority voting rights are rarely beacons of democratic accountability. indian-owned miner vedanta, where chairman anil agarwal speaks for 63%, is a case in point. minority shareholders have tried for years to get the company to improve governance to meet criticism from campaigners who have lambasted its record on the environment. two years ago, aviva investors urged agarwal to "open up lines of communication with investors and begin a dialogue with organisations that raise important matters of social and corporate governance". since then, the firm has moved in the right direction, but progress has been painfully slow. many investors want the uk listing authority to force companies to provide a free float of at least 50%. ftse international is reviewing whether companies with small free floats should be allowed to join important indices such as the ftse 100. listing rules may appear an arcane part of the financial architecture; but an overhaul would be a way of improving the city's reputation at a time when downing street is hellbent on singling it out for preferential treatment. there is something disconcerting about the way antónio horta-osório is being treated by the board of lloyds banking group. the chief executive of the bailed-out bank, who was hired amid much fanfare earlier this year, took an unexpected leave of absence on 2 november. the bank explained he was suffering from "fatigue" but was likely to be back behind his desk by the end of the year. he is, in effect, to be interviewed for his own job at the end of his sick leave. to be clear, the lloyds boss is suffering from a stress-related condition. if that stress had manifested itself in a cardiac condition instead of "fatigue", there would be no question of him being subjected to this type of treatment. the fact is his absence is being viewed as a failing, rather than an illness from which he can recover. there are even murmurings from lloyds insiders that he brought the condition on himself as a result of his hands-on management style. lloyds's chairman, sir win bischoff, should be ashamed – unless, of course, there is rather more to horta-osório's sick leave than the bank is letting on. in which case shareholders should be properly informed. if there is not, the lloyds chief executive should be reaching for his lawyer. it had to happen: britain's popular music combos have turned their attention to the shortcomings of george osborne's fiscal policy. as background music to recession and economic despair, it's not quite the smiths or billy bragg – but it's a start.
world central banks act to prevent fresh credit crunch central banks from around the world have announced emergency measures to boost liquidity in the global economy and prevent the financial system from freezing up. in a clear sign that policymakers fear the downturn in the eurozone risks spiralling into a fresh credit crunch – where banks stop lending to each other – they announced "co-ordinated central bank action to address pressures in global money markets". they will also establish "temporary bilateral liquidity swap arrangements" between one central bank and another, allowing liquidity to be provided at short notice in any currency "should market conditions so warrant". analysts said the move would help to unjam the financial markets. jeremy cook, chief economist at foreign exchange company world first, suggested that central bankers had tired of european leaders' failure to fix the euro crisis. "cutting swap costs is the equivalent of interest rate cuts," cook explained. "this may have been a signal that the money markets were a short shove away from complete collapse." "clearly the world's central bankers have had enough of all the political mud-slinging and intransigence and they've decided to take the situation by the scruff of the neck." the ftse 100 index rocketed by 198 points to hit 5535, a gain of 3.7%, while the dow jones industrial average surged by 429 points to 11986. the central bankers fear that if financial institutions rein in credit, it will hit ordinary consumers and businesses, and threaten a double-dip recession in the world economy. "the purpose of these actions is to ease strains in financial markets and thereby mitigate the effects of such strains on the supply of credit to households and businesses and so help foster economic activity," they said in a joint statement. separately, the ecb, which has come under intense pressure in recent weeks over its role in the deteriorating eurozone crisis, said it would now be able to provide liquidity to struggling banks in yen, sterling, swiss francs and canadian dollars if necessary. central banks have become increasingly nervous in recent days as declining confidence in the health of the euro, and of many major banks in the single currency zone, has pushed up the cost of funding for banks whose balance sheets have already been ravaged by the credit crunch and the recession. the minutes of this month's meeting of the bank of england's monetary policy committee showed that its members believed uk banks could only withstand the increase in funding costs for a relatively short period of time before they would be forced to rein in credit to domestic borrowers. separately, the bank's financial policy committee had warned that emergency measures might be warranted if the situation in the eurozone deteriorated further.
spreadbetter ig group's shares up 7% as volatile markets boost revenue the company surprised the markets by saying that first-half revenue is likely to rise by 23%, as trading volumes have been lifted by increasingly volatile financial markets. the statement drove the company's shares up by more than 7% to 466.5p and represents the continuation of a trend that has seen the stock rise by around 32% since the beginning of the credit crunch in september 2008 and by about 18% since august. the run makes howkins 1% stake worth more than £18m, a figure buoyed after the chief executive exercised £425,000 worth of extra share options earlier this month. the former accountant used to audit ig group's accounts before becoming its finance director in 1999. seven years later he was promoted to the top job. ig allows punters to bet on rising or falling financial markets and was founded by conservative party donor stuart wheeler in 1974, but initially only took bets on the price of gold. it now has markets on more than 30 indices as well as more than 7,000 individual stocks, the major commodities and foreign exchange. in a statement the company said: "following on from a strong first quarter, the group has continued to experience high levels of client activity during the second quarter of its financial year". the company expects first-half revenues of more than £193m, adding costs had been in line with management expectations. paul leyland, an analyst at investec, said: "while we recognise continued volatility is likely to be a key driver, we also believe ig is growing its active customer base in the uk and internationally. this would suggest the upgrade momentum is more structural than is currently being appreciated by the market, in our view". ig group issued a profit warning in january after weak trading volumes at the end of 2010. it has since recovered as traders have flocked back, with clients looking to bet on large swings in financial markets caused by uncertainty surrounding the euro zone's sovereign debt crisis.
george osborne exploits fall in borrowing costs to boost growth george osborne will on tuesday move to reassure the markets that he remains in control of the british economy when he declares that he is still on course to eliminate the structural budget deficit after a projected £21.5bn fall in britain's borrowing costs. he will hail the lower borrowing costs as a sign of how he has protected britain from the global sovereign debt storm that is currently focused on the eurozone. the chancellor will give his most difficult financial statement to parliament since he outlined his "fiscal mandate" – the elimination of the structural deficit by 2015-16 – in his emergency budget in june 2010. in a bid to show the coalition has not lost sight of its ambitions to promote social mobility, osborne will unveil a series of measures designed to promote growth, including: osborne will say that his emergency budget of june 2010 has reassured the markets and led to a fall in gilt rates. he will say that 10-year gilt rates have fallen by 1.3 percentage points, from 3.6% to 2.3%, since the last forecast by the office for budget responsibility at the time of the budget in march. this means that britain will borrow £21.5bn less than previously forecast between 2011-12 and the end of the current spending period in 2015-16. osborne is braced for yet another downgrading of its growth forecast by the office for budget responsibility, the independent forecasters established by the treasury after the election. the obr is also expected to say that some of britain's slow economic growth over the last year is structural, indicating that britain has suffered a more permanent dent to the economy than previously forecast. the chancellor will tell mps that the uk's recovery has been slowed by the sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone. this point was illustrated by sir mervyn king, the bank of england governor, who told the commons treasury select committee: "none of us can really know the scale of shocks that could come from the euro area and no banking system can withstand shocks that are sufficiently large so there is certainly no room for complacency. "over the last quarter i think all banks have become less safe because our banking system is exposed to the euro area. there is no question about it." "there are many things that could happen if developments in the euro area get worse and i honestly don't think it makes sense to pretend that we know precisely how this will play out. "what we have to do is to be ready and prepared with contingency plans and to make sure that as far as possible that our banking system is as robust as possible to withstand whatever shocks that could come from the euro area." under osborne's tax breaks plan, small companies will see the one-year holiday on business rates – due to expire in october 2012 – extended for a further six months at an estimated cost to the treasury of £210m. osborne believes 500,000 companies will benefit from the tax break, with 330,000 not paying any business rates in 2012-13. the holiday offers 100% relief on business rates up to £6,000, with progressively smaller rebates on amounts up to a cap of £12,000. the chancellor is also expected to unveil a new seed enterprise investment scheme for business startups. business angels will be offered the carrot of 50% income tax relief on investments of up to £100,000 in new enterprises, with each company eligible for £150,000 of investment in total. the scheme will start in april next year and for its first year will be accompanied by a capital gains tax holiday to encourage those sitting on profits from previous investment to plough their money back into startup companies. government sources said the two schemes were likely to cost the exchequer £50m and were intended to help raise capital for those companies seen as potentially risky in the current environment. help for slightly larger businesses operating in those regions of the uk particularly hard hit by government spending cuts will also be earmarked for assistance through a business angel co-investment fund. small- and medium-sized companies with turnovers of between £200,000 and £2m a year and seen as having high growth potential will be eligible for help using £50m from the regional growth fund. osborne is expected to assist the cashflow of construction companies working on government projects by the setting up of new bank account arrangements to pay companies within five days or less of the due date. at present some companies have to wait up to 100 days for payment. the £20bn that the chancellor is announcing for "credit easing" is money that will be channelled from existing promises that had been made by the treasury to the bank of england to enable threadneedle street to buy corporate bonds. the bank has not purchased many corporate bonds and some of the £50bn of guarantees will now be used, instead, to help banks raise money more cheaply on the markets – and in turn reduce the price of loans to small businesses. the banks are waiting to learn the size of any fee they will be charged to benefit from the government's top-notch, triple a rated guarantee that, theoretically, should reduce the price they pay to borrow money on the markets – either directly from other banks or buy issuing bonds. will hutton, co-author of a report on how to revive small business lending, said: "as it is structured, this won't add £1 extra of new credit." his report, along with ken peasnell, argues that the government would have been more effective if it had created a vehicle to buy up small business loans from banks, freeing up their balance sheets. under the government's scheme, the cost of loans to small businesses should fall by one percentage point, according to the treasury's projections, although this may be less if the government does decide to levy a fee for the guarantee. banks paid for the benefit of the government's triple a rating in october 2008 when labour introduced the credit guarantee scheme to help them borrow money from lenders that were otherwise reluctant to lend. according to analysis by credit suisse, as of 27 october there was £34bn of such loans outstanding. an earlier scheme to help banks raise funds was known as the special liquidity scheme and is due to expire at the end of january 2012. analysts at credit suisse believe that these existing schemes still have a purpose. "we think that the current liquidity schemes will be extended in the uk to help ease the first quarter funding burden," they said. osborne will promise a one-off payment of £50m as a downpayment towards buying new sleeper carriages or to significantly upgrade the existing carriages for services travelling between scotland and london. but he will challenge the scottish government to provide similar levels of funding and a guarantee that commissioning the new carriages will be underway before the end of this financial year before releasing the money, as a condition of the grant. the treasury offer follows the announcement on 15 november by transport scotland, the devolved government agency responsible for scottish rail services, that it is considering significant cuts in sleeper services in a review of all train services.
imf denies reports of italy bailout deal la stampa claimed that the imf could provide up to €600bn (£515bn) at a rate of 4%-5%, giving italy 18 months to sort its finances out. italy has moved centre-stage in the eurozone crisis in recent weeks as the cost of its borrowing has soared. the yields on its 10-year bonds are comfortably above 7%, the threshold above which other eurozone countries have received bailouts. reuters reported on monday morning that contact between the imf and rome have intensified recently, but that it was unclear what support italy could be offered. an imf inspection team will be in rome over the coming days. "given that imf chief christine lagarde recently said that the fund only had €285bn in emergency funds, this story seems rather implausible, however there does appear to be talk of some form of plan in the works, however it is not immediately clear how the imf would be able to raise the money needed," said michael hewson, an analyst at cmc markets. european stock markets rose in early trading despite the imf denials. the ftse 100 was up 42 points at 5,206, a 0.75% rise, while the french cac and the german dax were up 1.4% and 1.5% respectively. the euro rose 0.4% against the dollar. the imf rumours came just as credit ratings agency moody's warned that all eu countries could be downgraded as a result of the growing eurozone crisis. moody's said there was a possible positive scenario, in which the euro was preserved without widespread defaults: "even this 'positive' scenario carries very negative rating implications in the interim period." the possibility of multiple defaults and the fragmentation of the euro area "would have negative repercussions for the credit standing of all euro area and eu sovereigns," moody's said.
voices of finance: fund manager at asset management firm we meet in bonds restaurant on threadneedle street in the heart of the city, a popular hangout for financial professionals. it is 10am and the place is deserted, with one eastern european waitress absentmindedly polishing a glass at the far corner of the bar. he is in his early 40s and has an easy laugh and a confident diction. he is wearing a collar but no tie and orders a green tea, which he almost forgets to drink. "on the one hand i don't think the financial industry is so radically different from the rest of the business world. other industries are organised as pyramids where everyone is trying to get to the top; no difference there. then again in the financial industry we are working with other people's money. that is a real difference. "what i do: pension funds entrust us money to invest in the stock market, hoping that my team can achieve better returns than the market. we are so-called value investors, with a 'horizon' of about three to five years. after a lot of homework we buy shares in companies we hope to sell half a decade later for a good profit. we are like marathon runners, where traders are more like sprinters – they close their positions [sell all their stocks] at the end of each day. "i'd say that asset managers like me come in two varieties. there are the hedge funds. they do what we do, investing in companies on the stock market, but they do hedging (eliminating specific risks) or shorting (speculating on a share falling in price) in addition to this. "the second variety of asset managers is the one i am in, 'long only'. these take only long positions and hence invest, or speculate, only on shares going up. this may be seen as a bit more dull and dusty. hedge fund managers typically don't work for larger institutions, but for smaller independent boutiques. they may dress more casually, and can be more eccentric in their presentation. i'd say typical fund managers have stable personalities, independent thinkers, who are also modest – in this business you need to be well aware of everything you do not know. it's in the unknowns that risk resides. "our clients are institutional parties, professional organisations with lots of capital that invest their money with specific investment teams they have confidence in. retail houses, fund managers that sell funds to the general public, tend to attract clients more on the basis of the house's name, its image in public opinion. "for me there are two kinds of typical working days. when i travel to meet with a company's management team i get up really early to catch a flight to some place in europe. upon arrival we usually rent a car and often end up driving through some pretty desolate landscapes. "meetings are about two things: acquiring information, and sometimes delivering a message – when we believe that the company should change some of its practices or policies. it's mostly the former, and the way you do that is pretty much the way you are interviewing me now. put the other person at ease, lean backward slightly and begin by pleasantly asking a non-threatening question like: where do you see your company in three years? you take it from there. ask open questions. "delivering a message is something we regularly do as well. this is the province of so-called activist investors. these come closest, i suppose, to your gordon gekko. activist investors actually want the boardroom of a company to change course. for the board to do that, to come around to the view of an outsider, that requires charisma on the part of that outsider, as well as a lot intellectual persuasive power. there are not a lot of people blessed with both qualities. "what company managers really hate during these interviews is when fund managers or analysts come over and only ask very detailed questions about the last quarter and/or, when fund managers or analysts fail to prepare. the latter happens a lot. many fund managers are so spread out, they have hundreds of companies in their portfolios. they take no time to read up in advance, and end up spending their time asking questions like 'what is your company's product?' or 'who are your main competitors?' managers appreciate not having meetings where they exchange basic information that investors can easily research for themselves. "if it's a big company the meeting usually lasts an hour. smaller companies may reserve more time, since they are also interested in learning things from us, as representatives of the financial markets. as fund managers we speak to many different people and companies; that's a perspective that can be very useful to a company's management somewhere in the european heartland. good company managers are eager for feedback. "so we travel a lot, but companies' boards travel themselves too. we call these 'road shows'. they have a message to deliver, and they come to london and do a tour past lots and lots of asset managers and analysts. i often prefer visits to the company by myself. companies often do road shows when they have a nice story to tell rather than when there are issues that may be depressing their share price. "the other kind of working day is when i don't travel. traders and brokers have to be at their desks really early because they have to do be prepared to start calling clients and trading before the markets open at 8am. i don't, so i can have breakfast with my young children, and usually take them to the nursery … then the tube, time i use to read the paper and check on my phone, to see what the markets are doing and if there's news flow; events that may affect the companies in our portfolio. "the major part of a day i spend having meetings, basically. meetings with representatives from companies, analysts, consultants, clients or potential clients, and internal meetings with the rest of the investment team. there may be conference calls, and i phone up lots of people. i spend also quite a lot of work reading company reports and broker research, and modelling company's valuations. "ultimately what you are after as a fund manager is what we call the underlying reality, the fundamentals of a particular company. what kind of returns can a company make? what kind of investment and growth opportunities are there? to what extent is management willing and able to take advantage of these opportunities? these key drivers determine the company's value. we then build a model that we can feed new developments into, to keep our assessment of the company's value and prospects up-to-date. finally we have to follow the psychology of the markets, because not everyone invests like we do, with a five-year perspective. there's a lot of herd behaviour. successful investors are contrarians, they go where others are not. "a different category of meetings altogether is with potential clients. winning new ones takes a long time, years really. as an investment team you typically need a track record of at least three years. pitching to potential clients, you begin by introducing your investment house, trying to persuade them you're a professional and reliable lot. second you lay out your investment philosophy; why would you be making money or in other words: why do you expect to be able to outperform the market? you will then typically explain how you have organised your research process, so you go over that, and then you introduce your team, their individual strengths and backgrounds. finally you go through your track record, explaining why one year saw better returns than another. "the best moments in this job? there is the game element. basically, an investment is a hypothesis about the future value of a given company. you believe its share price will go up, and you test your hypothesis by taking a 'position' [buying the share]. then when you are vindicated, that is really very satisfying. and yes, that means you make more money. in that respect, the money you make expresses the degree to which you have been successful at what you do. "another top moment in this job is when a client decides to trust you with a large sum of money to invest for them. it's a vote of confidence, and that feels great. yes, it also means that my income goes up, because we get paid partly on the basis of the total amount of money under management. the more you manage, the more you get. but there's the sense of responsibility too, i mean, in the end we represent families, the people who paid into the pension fund whose money we are managing. one of the greatest pitfalls for fund managers is thinking we are more important than the clients whose money we are managing. that's why there are not a lot of gordon gekkos among us. "finally, great moments in this job are when your relationship with the company you have invested in has become so strong, and your insights into that company and the market it operates in have become so in-depth, that you end up almost in an advisory role. obviously management knows its own company best, but you may bring a perspective from the capital markets. say, we show the company that their current structure is 'suboptimal' as we call that, and we suggest that they sell off part of their operations and accelerate investments in their core business. if such discussions truly lead to value enhancing actions by the company, that is very rewarding. "i'd say i work 50 to 60 hours a week. in my job it's not about the hours you put in, it's about results. i do work late a lot. occasionally i take a taxi home, as the tube will have closed. we tend to use evenings to update our models of the companies we invest in; entering new numbers and data etcetera. that's the sort of stuff that is very difficult to get done during the day. there is always more you can know and find out. often i can't help myself checking the latest on my blackberry even during breakfast with the kids. this job is never finished."
investors believe glencore is poised to bid for control of katanga mining glencore shareholders believe the commodities group is poised to bid up to £400m for full control of congolese copper and cobalt producer katanga mining to take advantage of plunging prices. the speculation comes as glencore becomes free to issue shares for acquisitions following its £40bn mega float in may. key investors such as gic, the singaporean sovereign wealth fund, were also freed of their obligation to hold on to their collective 5% stake. dominic o'kane, an analyst at liberum capital, said: "i wouldn't be surprised if glencore went for katanga, they have already bought out the minorites in minara [the australian nickel producer]." glencore has owned 74% of katanga, which is listed on the canadian stock exchange, since 2008. katanga's mines, which also produce cobalt, are located in the copper belt within the democratic republic of congo (drc), a country that has been ravaged by civil war and corruption. but a leading glencore stakeholder asserted: "katanga is forecast to produce more than 300,000 tonnes of copper by 2015. it's just the sort of asset that ivan glasenberg [glencore's' chief executive] would like to take full ownership of. the potential is enormous even though there is political risk operating in drc." although the company has not been able to issue equity until now, that hasn't stopped glasenberg from hitting the acquisition trail. in august, glencore launched a $280m bid to acquire full control of minara where it already held 73%. then came confirmation it was interested in taking over south africa's optimum coal for $1.2bn. deal-hungry investment bankers are trying to persuade glasenberg to go for bigger fish. in the summer, glencore was forced to play down rumours it was lining up a £12bn bid for kazakh-controlled enrc. although perhaps a more logical deal is for glencore to buy the 65% of mining group xstrata that it doesn't own.one banker said: "there were two reasons this company came to market: the first was to allow the directors to cash in their equity; the second to give it added firepower for mergers and acquisitions." a glencore spokesman said: "our policy is never to comment on market speculation." as leading investors are allowed to sell, their holdings are deemed to be part of the glencore's free float which rises from 12% to 17%. that means tracker funds, which reflect the make-up of the ftse, and whose investors include pension funds, are obliged to top up their holdings accordingly. beyond the free float – stock available to buy and sell – are 78% of shares owned by employees and directors. their permission to sell is staggered from a year after flotation to five years. by next may, the free float should stand at around 50%.
global economy risks deflationary spiral, warns turner the head of the city's financial watchdog, adair turner, warned that the global economy was at risk of a deflationary spiral as the private sector and governments seek to pay off their debts at the same time. on a day of fresh jitters on the global markets, the chairman of the financial services authority (fsa) said escaping from a debt crisis caused by excessive lending by the banks was proving tougher than policymakers had ever envisaged. lord turner was highly critical of the lax regulation that allowed lenders to extend too much credit during the boom years. speaking in frankfurt, he said: "we are far from out of this crisis: it is far deeper and more difficult to escape than many of us initially thought." he added that the past failure to control adequately either private debt or public debt creation meant that the challenge of reducing debt levels was now so severe that it was likely to require a combination of higher growth, repayments of borrowing, debt writedowns and pumping money into the economy through policies such as quantitative easing. turner said there had been a "catalogue of profound errors in the design of our prudential regulation of banks and shadow banks which combined to leave us by 2007 with a massively over-leveraged financial sector free both to extend excessive credit to the real economy, and to create excessive intra-financial system risks." banks had been allowed to operate with too little capital and insufficient liquidity on the "erroneous assumption that increased bank leverage delivered social as well as private benefits", turner said. financial markets were left unimpressed by the victory of the centre-right party in the spanish general election, and were instead unsettled by hints that the credit rating agency, moody's, might remove france's coveted aaa rating. in moody's weekly credit outlook, alexander kockerbeck, a senior credit officer, said: "elevated borrowing costs persisting for an extended period would amplify the fiscal challenges the french government faces amid a deteriorating growth outlook, with negative credit implications." the risk premiums on spanish, italian, french and belgian government bonds rose as investors fled to safe-haven german bunds, while oil prices fell sharply amid concerns that the global economy was losing momentum. defending the austerity policies blamed for choking off growth and jobs, olli rehn, european economic and monetary affairs commissioner, said: "this crisis is hitting the core of the eurozone. we should have no illusions about this. "one simply cannot build a growth strategy on accumulating more debt, when the capacity to service the current debt is questioned by the markets," rehn told a brussels seminar. "one cannot force foreign creditors to lend more money if they don't have the confidence to do it." turner said the crisis was the result of over-confidence in free financial markets and structural flaws in monetary union. "and underlying both has been a failure to recognise the central importance to economic and financial stability of debt and leverage levels in general and bank credit creation and leverage in particular." arguing that policymakers had allowed banks to become excessively risky, turner added: "the fundamental problem is that we have too much debt in the system – private and public combined. to create a more stable system we need to deleverage, in private and public sectors, to different degrees in different countries. but once you have excessive leverage, it is very difficult to deleverage without depressing the economy." he noted that it was hard for the private and the public sector to pay off their debts at the same time without depressing demand, risking a self-reinforcing deflationary spiral. "given the more limited opportunities for rapid real growth today, and the fact that our current high levels of public debt are now accompanied, as they were not in post-war britain or america, by high levels of private debt, we have to recognise that the deleveraging challenge today is in some ways more serious than that which we faced at the end of the second world war," he said.
john pluthero, cww's £10m man, bows out with £624m write-down "we work for an underperforming business in a crappy industry," john pluthero told his staff when he became boss of the predecessor of cable & wireless worldwide (cww) in 2006. on tuesday, as his departure as chief executive was announced, pluthero declared that the company is "a strong business with enviable assets and customers". officially, then, the past half-decade has been a triumph. in total, the write-downs come to £624m, producing a thumping bottom-line loss of £590m for the six months to september. the dividend, having been chopped in half only recently, is now being suspended until cww can generate enough free cashflow to pay it; the cash outflow in the half-year was £17m. the share price, which was 90p at demerger in 2009, now sits at just 27p. pluthero's parting shot is a new plan to "reset" the business, which envisages lots of cost-cutting, "revised pricing methodologies" and expansion into the "cloud" data hosting market. the ambition doesn't sound terribly different from previous ideas. the unanswered question is whether cww can run fast enough to offset the squeeze on prices in its traditional voice business, and counter the competitive muscle of bt (and at&t and others) in the market for supplying telephony services to uk companies and public sector organisations. gavin darby, once of vodafone, is the man selected for the challenge. pluthero is waiving any compensation award. mind you, there would be a riot among shareholders if he had tried to collect. he received £10.2m at demerger via an incentive scheme that is rightly notorious. it looks to have paid out well before anybody could claim credibly that cww had been successfully reinvented.
us stock market ends the year where it started the standard & poor's 500 index closed 2011 a fraction of a point below where it started the year. the s&p closed at 1,257.60, up 5.42 points or 0.4 percent. it ended 2010 at nearly the exact same level, at 1,257.64. its loss for the year is 0.04 point. mcdonald's corp was the biggest winner in the dow this year with a gain of 31 percent. bank of america corp was the worst, down 58 percent. the conventional wisdom is the more risk, the greater the potential rewards. but the opposite is proving true this year: investors playing it safe have gained the most. the most dull and conservative of stocks – utilities – gained 15 percent, the largest gain of the ten industry sectors in the s&p 500 index. other winning groups are consumer staples and health care companies, up 11 percent and 10 percent in 2011 respectively. in europe, many of the biggest markets ended down for the year. britain's ftse 100 lost 5.6 percent, germany's dax 14.7 percent. trading has been quiet this week with many investors away on vacation. volume on the new york stock exchange has been about half of its daily average. markets will be closed on monday in observance of new year's day. better news on the job market and home sales lifted stocks thursday, pushing the dow up 135 points. on friday ford reported that its sales topped 2 million this year for the first time since 2007. ford fell 0.1 percent. rising and falling stocks were about even on the new york stock exchange. volume was just 2.2 billion shares, about half of the recent daily average.
ftse fall in 2011 wipes £85bn off value of uk firms when the ftse100 index closed on friday after half a day's trading, it stood at 5572.28, up a modest 5.51 points on the day and a fall of 327 points on the year. but that bland statistic hides the story of a tumultuous 12 months in which the index of leading shares, buffeted by the eurozone crisis and fears of a double-dip recession, moved through a range of 1314 points from peak to trough, ending somewhere above the middle of that. in all the benchmark index lost 5.5% of its value, knocking around £85bn off the value of britain's top companies. this was the seventh-worst annual performance since the ftse 100 began in 1984, and the biggest yearly fall since 2008, when it lost 31% in the wake of the lehman brothers collapse. the mid-cap index, the ftse 250, fared even worse, dropping 12.6%. after a bright start to 2011, investors were unnerved by march's earthquake and tsunami in japan, and the growing problems in the eurozone. the decline accelerated during the summer as the scale of the crisis became apparent, with portugal, spain and italy following greece onto the sick list and politicians seemingly unable to act. after touching 6105 in february, the index reached its nadir of 4791 in august, with european bond yields spiralling up and – in a sign the global gloom was not confined to europe – the us lost its cherished aaa credit rating. as eu summit followed eu summit there was some brief optimism later in the year that a solution could be reached. but the rally was muted, with investors expecting standard & poor's to downgrade france's aaa rating early in 2012. there were also fears the european bailout funds might not be big enough and worries about a global recession and a chinese slowdown. so in december the ftse 100 recorded a gain of only 67 points. britain's leading index outperformed european markets, however, mainly on the hope the fallout from the crisis on the continent could be contained. germany's dax was down around 15%, france's cac lost more than 17%, spain's ibex fell nearly 14%, while italy's ftse mib dropped 26%. in greece, one of the first countries to be gripped by the debt crisis, the athens stock market lost 61%. in japan the nikkei 225 index ended down 17% at 8455, its lowest level since 1982. apart from the eurozone crisis, the country also suffered damage to its manufacturing base following the devastating natural disasters. meanwhile in australia shares fell 14.5% during 2011, while china dropped 22% on fears of a property bubble and a hard landing for its hitherto booming economy. away from equities, the bond markets dominated sentiment, with italian yields moving above 7%, a level widely deemed to be unsustainable. in contrast uk 10-year bond yields fell to record lows below 1.93% on friday, before ending unchanged at 1.977%. as well as providing a respite from the eurozone, the price of uk gilts is being supported by hopes of further quantitative easing by the bank of england next year. over the past 12 months they have produced an investment return of about 16%. commodities also endured a volatile time, with gold up around $150 an ounce on the year at $1,570, but well off its peak of nearly $1,900 in early september. it has lost about 12% during december as traders preferred to cash in their gains and reinvest in the dollar, seemingly the last remaining safe haven. brent crude ended the year at around $107 a barrel, up from $95 in early january but, again, well off its peak of $126 in april. the euro, meanwhile, finished 2011 close to a 10-year low against the yen and a 15-month low against the dollar. simon denham at capital spreads said 2012 was unlikely to be any easier for investors: "we have further austerity measures to look forward to, together with a eurozone crisis that is far from resolved. there is also uncertainty over how china's slowdown will land, together with political issues, like the 2012 us elections and concerns over iran, to contend with."
nervous banks deposit record €412bn with ecb the flood of deposits surpassed the previous record of €384bn reached in june 2010, and topped the €347bn put into the ecb "shelter" last thursday, just before christmas. banks are using the low risk – but low return – ecb facility in preference to lending to other banks. high levels of distrust in inter-bank lending markets could lead to a liquidity freeze of the kind experienced at the beginning of the 2008 crisis. last wednesday, the ecb attempted to lubricate the flow of money between eurozone banks with three-year loans at around 0.75% as fears mounted that one or more eurozone banks might run out of cash. there was also speculation that banks might use the cash to buy up eurozone loans and ease the debt crisis facing some countries. a total of 523 banks took up the offer, applying for loans totalling more than €489bn. it was the largest amount the ecb had ever offered in a single liquidity operation and equivalent to around 5% of eurozone gross domestic product. they received the cash on friday and now seem to prefer parking it back with the ecb, where it earns only about 0.25%, rather than lend it on to other banks, even though it would earn higher interest rates. rome will sell €11.5bn of short-term bonds on wednesday and hold a more challenging €8.5bn auction of three- and 10-year bonds on thursday. in an indication that traders fear the auction could prove expensive for italy, the indebted country saw its 10-year cost of borrowing rise by about 11 basis points to 7.13%, before settling back below the psychologically important 7%. european stock exchanges were largely stable, in anaemic trading, but italian banks were hit. italy's unicredit and intesa sanpaolo, whose performances are correlated to the country's bond yields, were fallers, down 4.8% and 2.4% respectively. portuguese banks, however rose sharply, on hopes that chinese investors might take big stakes. banco espírito santo closed up 6.5%, millennium was 6.8% higher and banco bpi added 4%. chinese power group three gorges last week bought the portuguese government's 21% stake in the country's edp energy group – portugal's biggest company – providing a €2.7bn boost. italy must meet €161bn of debt repayments between february and april 2012, and in order to make the payments needs to re-borrow the cash. the only alternative would be a bailout or a default. investors are worried that subdued holi day trading will make it even harder than usual for rome to raise money at the auction. "it will be a good barometer for market demand, and any hiccups there could be a catalyst that sees the euro break below its current range," said omer esiner, chief market analyst at commonwealth foreign exchange in washington. "the concern is the thin markets, and the long maturity of the debt on offer might make it a tough sell." the euro traded at $1.3070. a fall below $1.2945, a level touched earlier in december, would take the single currency to its lowest level since january. "the upcoming year is shaping up as a do-or-die year for the euro," said boris schlossberg, research director at gft forex. "the question on most traders' minds isn't whether the euro/dollar will rise or fall, but whether it will actually survive the year intact." the ecb liquidity loans have succeeded in lowering inter-bank lending rates. as markets reopened, three-month euribor rates fell to 1.396% from 1.404%. longer-term rates also fell, with six-month rates easing to 1.648% from 1.658%, while 12-month rates relaxed to 1.976% to 1.988%. "it is way too early to declare the ecb loans a success or failure," said aline schuiling, a senior economist at abn amro. "markets are very quiet and a lot of institutions are still closed. never draw any fundamental conclusions in the final week of the year." the previous largest ecb liquidity operation, which provided banks with €442bn in one-year loans in june 2009, helped pave the way for a pick up in lending to the real economy in 2010.
our share tips for 2012 unfortunately the guardian's selection of share tips for the year came nowhere near matching the market's performance, losing 20% in total. and 2012 doesn't look as if it will be much better, with the continuing prospect of the eurozone collapsing, a large amount of sovereign debt to be refinanced early in the year, china's economy perhaps facing a hard landing and austerity drives continuing to bite. despite this, we are sticking our necks out once more with 10 more shares we hope will outperform. the only rule was no retailers. well, maybe just a couple. end price taken on 23 december
thorntons hit by falling profits and store closures thorntons on wednesday said it was unlikely to make a profit next year, having been hit by steep discounting of its chocolate treats in supermarkets and the tough conditions on the high street. the 100-year-old company has plans to slim down and revamp its operation. it will close 180 of its 579 stores over the next three years, mostly when leases expire, and hopes to open franchises in those locations. gearing up for a christmas flop, the chocolatier blamed "high levels of promotional activity in the marketplace" for its worsening performance during the festive period, normally its biggest selling season of the year. it now estimates it will only break even in the year to the end of june, after making a profit of £4.3m in the previous year. the grim outlook came as a huge disappointment to the city, which had expected thorntons to turn in a profit of £3.8m for the year. the shares fell nearly 38% to 23.25p, making them one of the biggest fallers on the stock market. a trading update in october showed like-for-like sales falling nearly 8% at company-owned stores, with franchise sales down 6.4%. profit margins have been damaged by supermarkets cutting the price of thorntons chocolates and using them as a loss leader. retail analyst david jeary, at investec, said: "the level of promotional activity and discounting in supermarkets appears to have been a lot more this year than last year. this has an impact on gross margin as supermarkets pass it back on to their suppliers." thorntons has also been affected by growing competition from upmarket chocolate brands such as hotel chocolat, which is expanding its uk operation and now runs 62 shops across the uk, along with 35 concessions in john lewis department stores. as part of a turnaround programme announced in june, the retailer is also introducing more sampling and gift ranges and putting more products on display to give consumers an idea what is inside the box. jeary said he was impressed with thorntons' new prototype store in birmingham, but noted that it would take two to three years to introduce the new format across the country. shopper numbers were up sharply in the final week before christmas as consumers took advantage of promotions and discounts of up to 50%, according to the british retail consortium (brc). footfall rose 2.3% from the same period last year. brc director general stephen robertson said: "this is confirmation that last weekend was the big shopping weekend retailers had been hoping for. after a late start to christmas buying, consumers were out on the streets in greater numbers than for the same week in 2010, although the big question is whether it has translated into enough actual spending to make up for a largely disappointing year. "retailers have been working hard to encourage people into their stores, running exceptionally high levels of promotions and discounts. they'll be relieved to see that effort paying off but, for some, the season still hangs in the balance. many sales are being made at the expense of margins and good trading in the next three days, particularly on christmas eve, will be crucial."
private investors sell off shares the recent stock market volatility caused – predominantly – by the continuing eurozone crisis has seen private investors reduce their equity holdings for the first time since early 2010. between september and november they sold £695m of their investments, following five consecutive quarters of buying. the last quarter's selling was the heaviest since september 2009, when investors took advantage of a strong rally in share prices to take profits following the financial crisis of 2008. as a result of the recent sales, private shareholdings fell below 12% of the total uk index from the two-year high in august. by the end of last week, private investors held £213bn of equities – a fall of £24bn since their holdings peaked in may at £237bn. in the wake of the past four years of financial crises, shareholdings are no greater in cash terms than in may 2006. charles cryer, chief executive of capita registrars, which conducted the survey, said: "investors are clearly getting worried; they have taken advantage of the ftse's recovery from its summer lows to sell shares for the first time since mid-2010." resource companies saw the largest amount of selling, both because they form the biggest sector in the leading index, but also because of growing fears of a severe slowdown in the global economy, which would reduce demand for commodities. but even defensive sectors such as healthcare and utilities were weak.
city financiers plot to block reform of commodity markets the city is at it again. the same self-serving, disingenuous arguments used to campaign against banking reform are being wheeled out on a new front. this time it's about rules to check rampant speculation in commodity markets. rules that could cut prices for food and raw materials in some of the poorest countries in the world. but the money men don't get it. they are using their lobbying muscle to water down european commission proposals that limit the activity of commodities traders. we shouldn't be surprised at the backlash: as george osborne prepares to announce how the government will implement the proposals of sir john vickers to prevent another banking meltdown, the bankers have been engaged in furious last-minute lobbying. america is ahead of the curve on this one: the obama administration has forced measures through congress to curb the activities of commodity traders – which are enshrined in the dodd–frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. needless to say, the president faced a barrage of hostility from the big banks, hedge funds, trading houses and derivatives junkies. now the usual suspects on this side of the pond are kicking up a fuss for the same reasons. policymakers in brussels say new regulations that form part of the "market in financial instruments directive ii" aim to create orderly pricing in commodities markets, and prevent sharp jumps in the cost of basic commodities. but bodies such as the london-based futures and options association are spearheading a campaign against so-called "position limits", which contain the size of the bets traders can place on commodity prices. they say the proposals are politically inspired and dispute the idea that curbs will reverse the trend of rising prices. city lobbyists hope to take advantage of vagueness in the draft directive to push for a light-touch regulatory approach. otherwise, they say london could lose out with business migrating elsewhere; markets would work less efficiently; there would be less liquidity. these arguments should be given short shrift, in particular where food prices are concerned. campaign group the world development movement points out that "enormous amounts of capital are flooding markets, causing sudden food price spikes that can be lethal for low income families in developing countries". a crackdown on food price speculation is long overdue. figures from the us commodity futures trading commission show that in 1996 speculators made up 12% of the food futures market. the remaining 88% was accounted for by investors with a commercial interest in the industry such as farmers or consumers of farm produce – people who legitimately use the market to hedge against price volatility. but by 2011, speculators spoke for 61%, a huge increase, following deregulation in the uk and us in the mid-1990's. in other words speculators were allowed to treat food like any other asset class. it wasn't long before the likes of goldman sachs and barclays spotted the opportunity to create new financial products, helping to expand a market worth hundreds of billions. financial speculation is widely acknowledged as contributing to a global food price crisis, as well as soaring commodity prices more generally. this is recognised by the us, the eu and the g20, all of whom are moving towards tighter regulation. position limits are essential to prevent the emergence of dominant traders who can distort the market; and to slow price increases. as with banking reform, it's in the public interest to bring the city to heel. when nick clegg decides to play the british bulldog, you know we're in desperate straits. clegg slammed french central bankers and politicians on friday for what he called their "unacceptable" remarks about the fragile state of the british economy. like the french, clegg is desperately trying to salvage a few political points from a grim situation. the french economy faces a humiliating ratings downgrade from standard & poor's as eurozone ministers battle to contain fallout from the sovereign debt crisis. the truth is that france – like clegg – is fighting for its political life. although, as william keegan points out below, sarkozy was grateful to cameron for preventing the fiscal compact being enshrined in a new treaty, if failed to persuade the germans to allow the european central bank to rescue spain and italy, and couldn't persuade merkel to allow the new eurozone bailout fund, the esm, to be given the firepower and independence of a bank. several french banks are in parlous financial health and are likely to need bailing out in the coming months; and without any satisfactory resolution to how greece, ireland and portugal are ever going to manage their eye-watering debt burdens, france could be on the hook for a large share of a new round of megabucks bailouts. so it's not surprising that, as s&p's all-powerful analysts sharpen their pencils, france is getting its retaliation in first, by turning on the brits. we too face a bleak outlook, with a recession in the new year now looking more likely. but the reason we're not first in line for a ratings cut is that our banks look (a bit) stronger than their continental rivals; more importantly, we're not hitched to the eurozone, thanks largely to ed balls and gordon brown. with an election looming in the spring, nicolas sarkozy – like clegg – is trying to salvage some political gains from a grim situation. but as the economic news goes from bad to worse, it will become increasingly difficult for either of them to look like a winner. while the financial services authority report on the collapse of rbs resulted in little more than a few red faces and slapped wrists last week, washington's regulators continue to hold executives to account. the securities and exchange commission announced on friday that it would sue several top bosses from giant mortgage companies freddie mac and fannie mae, which had to be bailed out by the government at a cost of $168bn when the housing bubble burst. "fannie and freddie were not innocent victims, but major players in a game they helped design and develop," the sec's attorney said last week. sir fred goodwin, who repeatedly told investors rbs's exposure to the us sub-prime crisis was minimal, must be grateful the fsa is far less formidable than the sec. he's unlikely to receive the treatment being meted out to ex-fannie mae boss daniel h mudd – though some might say goodwin's name is already mud.
zynga ipo fails to generate stock market 'pop' on disappointing debut many tech firms enjoy spectacular first-day "pops", with stratospheric rises in their share price in the early hours of trading. zynga's shares, priced at $10, rose 11% initially, before closing out the day at $9.45. wall street, it seems, isn't playing zynga's game. at least not yet. the company, which claims 60 million people a day play its games, raised about $1bn from the share sale, and is worth a total of $7bn, far less than the $20bn that had been expected earlier this year. founder mark pincus, who named the company after his pet bulldog, now owns a stake worth over $1bn. he cashed in some of his shares ahead of the sale, selling a small portion of his holding for more than $109m back in march, according to regulatory filings. unlike many other young web companies, zynga is profitable. the company makes money by selling virtual goods in its popular games such as cityville, farmville and mafia wars. in the first nine months of the year, zynga's revenue doubled to $829m from a year earlier, but its net income declined 35% to $31m. facebook takes a third of the game firm's revenues, and analysts expect zynga to use its new cash pile to expand into the rapidly growing mobile gaming market and away from its social networking. john wilson, partner at san francisco law firm sherman & sterling, said zynga was a major beneficiary of the facebook effect. "it's in the social network space and it's affiliated with facebook," he said. facebook gives the company an "extraordinary reach. and they are able to leverage that relationships with the most remarkable company story since google," he said. "the real test is where will it be six months from now." according to birinyi analyst kevin pleines, tech ipos have popped an average of 31% from their ipo price after the opening bell on their first day of trading. but 18 of the 30 stocks he looked at are now below their ipo price, and 24 of the 30 are below their opening price on their first day of trading. wilson said the pops were part of the process and that the big winners in technology, such as google, had similarly leapt up in price on their first day of trading but gone on to outperform. "the issue now is that there is so much money on the sidelines," wilson added. "pension funds, hedge funds, private investors. and they are getting so little from fixed income investments that when something with potential comes along, there's a stampede." zynga's debut is the latest test for an ipo market that took a hit after a summer slump. many other new tech firms were planning ipos earlier this year before stock markets were thrashed by the crisis in europe and the debt ceiling row in washington. wilson said he expects many of those firms to go public next year, led by facebook. figures leaked this week suggest facebook will aim for a valuation of $100bn when it goes public next year – about the same value as soft drinks and food giant pepsi co.
facebook prepares for risks and rewards in its future documents filed with the us securities and exchange commission (sec) claimed that it had a staggering 845 million active monthly users, half of whom sign in every day, $3.7bn in annual revenue and a rocketing growth rate. it also has a very healthy profit margin of 27%, just above fellow internet giant google. this is a company that seems to give the final lie to the image of tech firms as coming prematurely to market with more in the way of wild dreams than a solid balance sheet. no wonder facebook has achieved the almost impossible for a modern american corporation in being not only the subject of a hollywood movie, but the subject of one that was exciting and critically acclaimed. yet amid all the merited praise of facebook's astonishing rise, it is possible to find sceptics about the future. facebook is entering a very different world from the one in which it grew up as a brash silicon valley startup. it will face different pressures now it has come of age. even among those who reacted positively to facebook's move last week it was possible to detect a change of mood. "it is a very valuable company. but there will be bumps on the road ahead," said david sherman, professor of accounting at northeastern university in boston. facebook is unusual in that its biggest asset is not really something it makes. it is not a product in the traditional sense of the word and there is not a single service that it provides. instead facebook's true value lies with its vast user base and the myriad, ever-shifting ways in which its members use the website. that mother lode of personal profiles is what advertisers prize above all. the information that facebook harvests and stores on its users is a goldmine for marketers and any company serious about selling its products in the 21st century. but one problem facebook faces is how to expand that already enormous user base. what started out as a networking site for harvard students now encompasses almost one in eight people on the planet. thus the sort of massive exponential growth that has marked facebook's astonishing rise is simply not going to be possible for much longer. coupled with that are problems in areas of the world where facebook has yet to make its mark, notably parts of asia where local social media websites have a strong market share, and most particularly china. in its filing to the sec last week, facebook mentioned china no fewer than nine times. it is not hard to see why. there are more than half a billion chinese online, representing a tempting last hunting ground. china's government is less keen on being infiltrated by a western social media giant. beijing is notorious for its desire to control the information to which its citizens have access. facebook has been blocked there for the last three years and, though facebook's internal culture is less politically opposed to censorship than other internet firms, like google, it might not be possible to negotiate a way in. the company admitted as much: "we do not know if we will be able to find an approach to manage content and information that will be acceptable to us and to the chinese government," it said last week. but facebook has to find growth somewhere. now that it plans to go public, it will gain shareholders who will demand nothing less than ever-rising profits each three months. so if broadening its user base might not be easy, another tack would be to deepen it. it could improve the value of its user base by extracting more intimate information from users that is valuable to advertisers, who could deploy it in ever more targeted and sophisticated ways. part of that value is facebook's existence as a place for networks of friends. advertisers are discovering that people are far more likely to pay attention to ads for products that their friends like, or have been recommended to them by friends, rather than by just clicking on a seemingly random internet advert that appears on their screen. catherine tucker, a professor at the massachusetts institute of technology's sloan school of management, has published a recent paper on such "social advertising" and believes facebook could unlock huge value with it. "facebook knows who people's friends are, which can be hugely valuable to marketers. feeding that social network into the facebook algorithm creates huge and under-exploited profit potential," tucker said. but it may not be that easy. firstly, the advertising cannot be intrusive. many experts – as well as ordinary users of facebook – believe that the more obvious the advertising on the website, the more people will be put off from using facebook. there is another concern too. it is a common complaint of many facebook users that the company is too keen to override their worries about privacy. they resent the idea that facebook is not simply a useful service that helps them stay in touch with people, but is in fact a gigantic, profit-making company that sees them as a valuable resource to sell to advertisers. collecting too much data on users and allowing advertisers access to it too obviously could cause them to seek an alternative service. it is a delicate tightrope to walk. the man most responsible for walking that fine line is zuckerberg, who who has steered the firm this far. but now that it is coming to the market, zuckerberg's role is set to come under increasing scrutiny. the needs of a startup – even a huge one – are very different from those of a fully grown corporate behemoth with a floating stock price and outside investors clamouring for returns at all costs. some see zuckerberg as less well equipped to tackle those demands as chief executive than current chief operating officer, sheryl sandberg, who has a strong business background and is the company's highest-paid employee. they see zuckerberg as more of a visionary and a creative force, while sandberg as the real business brain. not that zuckerberg seems to be stepping away from the frontline of facebook's development any time soon. he owns about a quarter of the company and agreements with other shareholders mean he holds about 60% of the shares that carry voting powers: effectively, a controlling stake. that is far more than bill gates had when microsoft went public and also more than google's co-founders had when that firm followed suit. even in its sec papers, zuckerberg showed his individualistic streak by telling potential investors he might make decisions that put facebook users ahead of facebook shareholders. in a letter to investors describing the company's mission, zuckerberg praised "hacker culture" and said the firm was more interested in its social mission than just making money. "simply put: we don't build services to make money; we make money to build better services. and we think this is a good way to build something. these days i think more and more people want to use services from companies that believe in something beyond simply maximising profits," zuckerberg wrote. some experts welcomed that view. "in the long term that could be a good thing," said sherman. yet zuckerberg's sentiment will be news to most wall street investors, as facebook is likely to discover soon after its first shares hit the open market. if profits or sales disappoint at any stage, then facebook's shares will plummet just like those of any other company. "wall street will beat your stock down if you don't beat your profits every quarter," said cohan. then there is google+, the rival social networking website set up by google. other potential "facebook killers" will almost certainly emerge from some starry-eyed student's laptop, just as facebook itself once did. another possible problem is the explosive growth of social networks on mobile phones, which currently do not carry much effective advertising and thus blow a hole in facebook's existing business model. the brutal fact is that facebook's future is unknowable. for every pundit wowed by its possible applications and the supposedly infinite numbers of future services, there is another seeing little scope for growth. for every admirer of zuckerberg who believes in his genius, there is another who thinks pride becomes before a fall. for every investor agog at the prospect of buying a chunk of facebook's bright future, there is another calling the whole thing a gigantic bubble.
stock markets rise on surprise us jobs boost and uk services optimism   a surprise leap in new us jobs and much stronger than expected news from britain's dominant services sector have bolstered hopes of a new-year rebound on both sides of the atlantic. stock markets surged as the world's largest economy reported an unexpected fall in unemployment along with buoyant business activity. the news propelled the dow jones industrial average to its highest close since before the 2008 financial crisis. the dow jumped 156.82 points to 12,862.23, its highest mark since 19 may 2008, about four months before lehman brothers investment bank collapsed. in the uk there was similar upbeat news from a survey suggesting services companies enjoyed their strongest growth in activity for almost a year in january. but economists were quick to cautioned against reading too much into the new-year bounce, stressing that households remained under severe strain and businesses faced continued uncertainties, particularly around the eurozone debt crisis. athens is under pressure to wrap up talks on a bond swap and a €130bn (£108bn) bailout to avert a chaotic default, but hopes of an imminent deal faded after eurozone finance ministers put off a meeting expected on monday to finalise the rescue. it came as greek unions and employers' associations blocked a critical element of an eu rescue deal, accusing negotiators of crippling the economy with wage cuts and tax rises that will undermine growth. but in britain, france and germany, leading share indices all added more than 1.5% after the closely watched us non-farm payrolls reported the fastest jobs growth in nine months. the 243,000 jobs added in january were well above market expectations of a 150,000 gain. the llabour department said the jobless rate fell to 8.3%, the lowest for three years, from 8.5% in december. "the economy is growing stronger. the recovery is speeding up. and we've got to do everything in our power to keep it going," he said, renewing calls for congress to extend tax reductions for working americans. "now is not the time for self-inflicted wounds to our economy." economists noted the employment gains were spread widely across the economy. "january's payrolls report is unambiguously positive," said rob carnell, chief international economist at ing financial markets. "at the current rate of improvement, the long-run target for the unemployment rate of about 6.5% will be reached by early to mid-2013." there were similarly cautious predictions for the uk after a widely followed survey of the services sector recorded a stronger than expected start to the year. services companies, which make up more than two-thirds of the economy, were more optimistic about the outlook and enjoyed the strongest growth in new business since last july, according to the markit/cips uk services pmi poll. businesses in the sector, which includes hotels and restaurants to banks and transport, hired new workers at the fastest pace for almost four years. the upbeat report cast doubt over whether the bank of england will resume its quantitative easing programme when it announces its latest policy decisions next week. howard archer, economist at ihs global insight, said: "the economy still faces very challenging conditions and is far from out of the economic woods". "indeed, relapses in activity remain a very real risk given major headwinds that notably include still pressured consumers, rising unemployment, reduced government spending and the ongoing uncertain eurozone sovereign debt situation." survey compilers markit said the report chimed with its polls from other sectors this week suggesting the uk economy enjoyed a revival in january. the survey's headline measure of business activity rose to 56 in january, up from 54 in december. that was well above the 50 mark that separates expansion from contraction and beat a forecast for it to drop to 53.5 in a reuters poll of economists. it was the highest reading for 10 months. "much uncertainty persists, but this is nevertheless a far better start to 2012 than almost all were expecting to see," added williamson. there were also signs that strains on households had eased slightly as the number of insolvencies fell at the end of last year, although experts warned the improvement could be short lived. personal insolvencies in england and wales dropped to 28,973 in the fourth quarter, from 30,219 in the third quarter, the insolvency service said. in 2011 there were 119,850 personal insolvencies, down from 135,045 in 2010.
glencore and xstrata in talks over £50bn 'merger of equals' commodities trader glencore and miner xstrata are in active talks about merging to create a £50bn global mining group. new uk "put up or shut up" takeover rules mean that glencore, the world's biggest commodities trader, now has until 1 march to make a formal offer. xstrata informed the market on thursday morning that glencore had approached it over a "merger of equals". however both companies cautioned that "there can be no certainty that any offer will be made". ivan glasenberg, glencore's chief executive, has been pushing for the deal for years, and glencore has already built up a 34% stake in xstrata. a source close to the deal said it was expected that davis will become chief executive of the combined group if the deal goes ahead. it was suggested that davis would be better placed because the combined company would primarily remain a miner rather than a trader. glasenberg is expected to become deputy chief executive. the merger of the two companies, which occupy headquarters just two miles apart in switzerland – where they are based for tax reasons – would create the world's fifth-biggest listed mining group. the deal comes a decade after glencore was instrumental in helping xstrata list on the london stock market when it sold the swiss miner its coal assets. glencore was founded by marc rich, a commodities trader best known for being charged by us authorities with selling oil to iran during the 1979-81 hostage crisis. the motivation for the initial public offering, which transformed glasenberg and four other partners into billionaires and created hundreds of millionaires, was widely seen as a way to obtain a fair market valuation of the company to allow the xstrata deal to go ahead. "these two companies were expected to merge and this is obviously a little bit faster than we had anticipated, but it makes sense given how the companies have performed and the current market positions," said collins stewart analyst tim dudley. "glencore being such a dominant trader and marketer of commodities, and xstrata being such as strong operator of difficult assets, i think it creates enormous value," prasad patkar of platypus asset management in sydney, told bloomberg. "on one end you have great mining expertise, on the other you've got great marketing expertise. two and two together should make five." however other analysts cautioned that the deal may fall apart in a dispute over the price. a "merger of equals" implies glencore will not offer much of a premium to secure control. xstrata investors are likely to balk at the deal unless a significant premium is offered. "xstrata shareholders without a glencore shareholding will logically demand a significant premium to be absorbed into a glencore/xstrata combination – they could have owned glencore shares if they wanted exposure to glencore. this implies that a deal is only viable if glencore pays essentially all of the immediate synergy value to shareholders in the 65% of xstrata it doesn't already own," said simon toynes, analyst at redburn. "such a structure would leave glencore shareholders with no uplift value for now." christopher lafemina, an analyst at jefferies, was more optimistic. "this is the deal the whole market has been waiting for. both companies have said in the past they would be interested in merging due to their complementary business models and shared corporate culture. "in our view, this may be the rare case where a nil premium merger of equals in which shareholders of both companies share the synergies is possible and maybe even sensible and likely. a deal like this would never be easy, but now is as good a time as any for it to happen." glasenberg, who is worth $7.2bn (£4.5bn) according to the latest forbes rich list, makes so much money he, indirectly, funded a generous christmas tax break for the other residents of the swiss village where he lives. the residents of rüschlikon voted to cut the local income tax rate by 5% after glasenberg's tax payments helped swell municipal coffers to a sfr60m (£40m) surplus, thanks to swiss tax laws that require a substantial proportion of income tax to be paid to the local village authorities.
facebook expected to be valued at $100bn in stock market flotation status update: going public. valuation up to $100bn. it started in a single harvard dorm room as a way to connect often lonely students, then spread rapidly across ivy league universities from a house in palo alto, before becoming the subject of a hollywood hit film. now the social network believes it has become so important to so many that it describes itself as a "social utility" without which, it is hoping, its worldwide total of 845 million users cannot function. if facebook can repeat google's trick it will demonstrate that for all the talk about the rise of india and china, it is still silicon valley that creates the most lucrative and innovative companies on the planet. and, while facebook may exist only on desktops, tablets and mobile phones, the internet is the frontier of our times, the place where fortunes of the size of zuckerberg's paper $28bn can be made in the time it once may have taken to travel to and from the new world. assuming, that is, zuckerberg can meet the expectations placed upon him. brent hoberman, who floated lastminute.com in 2000, knows a little about the pressures of a highly priced float. when asked at the time if he was happy to get his company on to the london stock market, hoberman was equivocal. "it was quite stressful really," he said. "we were valued for perfection, which put an incredible pressure on us." lastminute's shares fell by as much 95% at the worst point, a reminder that the buzz of the moment is never enough if the underlying financial model does not convince. facebook starts with some advantages that a company like lastminute did not have. it is already profitable, making $1bn after tax last year, and has amassed a cash pile of about $3.9bn. it has long won the battle to be the world's leading social network, and continues to grow financially, with revenues expected by some to hit $7bn in 2012. but while google is the dominant player in a new advertising category, internet search, facebook is competing in a melee for display advertising in which newspapers, broadcasters and a range of other popular websites chase revenue. its advocates argue that facebook has the potential to become a force for change, developing in directions not immediately foreseen. the social network had developed its own currency, facebook credits, and has become the host environment for other media, for farmville and other games (which provide at least 12% of revenues), for spotify in music and even the guardian in news media. it has the capacity, hoberman argues, to be a "disruptive force" in industries ranging from games to payments, new areas such as telecommunications, and advertising, where the company is only beginning to exploit some of the possibilities of selling personally targeted ads. the challenge is whether it can do so without infringing users' privacy, although hoberman argues that "people who think young people worry about that are out of touch". more importantly, arguably, are the key personalities. its success will depend a great deal on zuckerberg. his letter to investors eulogised the importance of the "hacker way", a corporate republic based on coders who get things done, and his partnership with chief operating officer sheryl sandberg, the former clinton era junior politico who handles the speaking, political and regulatory issues that the shy, geeky zuckerberg does not. success in the us technology industry depends to a surprising degree on the energy and vision of the founders – from the late steve jobs to larry page at google demonstrating what can be achieved to the failure of jerry yang, who recently quit the long struggling yahoo. popular knowledge of zuckerberg – whose 28% personal stake plus control of votes from associates gives him control of his own destiny – derives largely from a script by aaron sorkin, whose social network film grossed $225m, rather modest by facebook standards. it portrays a driven and somewhat ruthless executive whose masterwork is a response to being jilted by his girlfriend and who is prepared to drop his closest friend, eduardo saverin, as he gets ahead. it is not until the end do we learn that zuckerberg and saverin settled their dispute, with the facebook founder helping ensure that he was left with a lucrative near-$5bn stake in yesterday's money. not everybody can reward former friends so well. the real zuckerberg will have his own part to play. his success or otherwise in matching the $100bn of expectations will set the overall narrative for the next internet generation. in other words, the next five years.
facebook files for $5bn ipo facebook's initial public offering (ipo) will be the biggest technology ipo since google's in 2004. there have been estimates that 1,000 current and former employees could become paper millionaires when the company goes public. the sale will be the defining moment – and the biggest test yet – for the new wave of social media firms now joining the us stock exchanges. zuckerberg wrote: "facebook was not originally created to be a company. it was built to accomplish a social mission — to make the world more open and connected." the success of facebook has spawned new verbs such as "to friend", and a hit hollywood movie, the social network, that chronicled the company's origins, and was dismissed as inaccurate by some of the firm's real players. facebook's sale looks set to prove lucrative for bono. the u2 frontman is an investor in elevation partners, which bought $120m worth of facebook shares in 2010. the company will remain tightly under zuckerberg's control, according to the filing. the facebook founder has struck an "irrevocable proxy" with many of his major shareholders that will give him the right to vote on their behalf. the consequences of going public on their own will be one of the biggest problems facebook will have to deal with in the next six to twelve months, said nate elliott, analyst at forrester. the company will come under massive regulatory and investor scrutiny and "early employees may now be spending more time on their jet skis than on their computers," he said. chicago securities attorney andrew stoltmann said facebook's growth seemed to be slower than many analysts had expected. "but i think people will gloss over that," he said. "on the plus side, this is a tech company that is profitable, but it's in an extremely competitive business with deep-pocketed competition like google," he said. "quite simply, there is no other company out there that could pull off this valuation. people are dying to get into this company because they are on facebook, it's irrational if you look at the numbers. cohan said facebook has three months to prove him wrong. "three months after the ipo, the first earnings report will be the key." if facebook beats expectations, it will be fine, cohan said. if it doesn't, "it will get trashed."
the facebook ipo: billion-user ambition at a $100bn price facebook, in its eighth year of operation, will be looking for a valuation of $100bn – a number that it may well exceed by another great leap of staging and euphoria. the seismic nature of the facebook ipo can hardly be oversold. the ipo creates a currency that will allow the company to buy whatever it needs to vertically integrate all the elements of its massive appetites – to be your wallet, your phone, your search engine, your company's cash register, your entertainment portal, and your publishing platform, as well as your social life. and to do this all in a closed world of protocol enforcement, behavior monitoring and data gathering. the technology business is an ever-expanding effort at monopoly and control: microsoft sped past apple to grab the desktop; google sped past microsoft to control the internet itself; apple reappeared to control mobile devices. now facebook seeks to control pretty much … well, you. i will let someone else take up the moral issues and i will stick to the business point: i don't think that facebook, with its messianic ambitions and squirrelly zeal, is actually ready for the harsh light of public company life. even though it comes to market with the weight and hegemonic feel of the biggest brands, it has grown up in such a bubble of cultishness and doctrine, that primetime scrutiny could shortly become very uncomfortable. public exposure, rather than fictional movie exposure, could be cruel – even though zuckerberg is said to be practicing up for earnings calls. indeed, it is hard to overstate how truly public facebook is about to become, and how much more difficult it will be to contain the controversies – about its provenance, its financing, its privacy polices and its data thirst – that have always dogged it, and which, in the past, it has largely just gone tightlipped about. on the other hand, as part of the private company "story", they talk at facebook about advertising in a transitional sense, of it being something they might need now, but which can be left behind as they integrate a further and deeper relationship with users and figure out new and more crafty ways to monetize what they, and only they, understand about individual behavior. it's a speculative dream and breathtaking power grab, which, in the end, i don't think they'll get away with. granted, so far they have.
investors burned by plunging stock market turn to buoyant art market "investors are entering the market and existing collectors are buying more," said steven murphy, christie's chief executive. "while we are seeing more investors collecting, there are many more collectors who are increasing their investment in their collections as the explosion of interest in art, fuelled by globalisation, facilitated by the technology that increases access to information and images, meets the art that is coming to the market." the auction house said first-time buyers increase by 12%, and demand from china and russia continues to grow. chinese buyers accounted for 13% of sales last year, a 2% increase on 2010, and the number of customers from russia and former soviet union countries increased by 15%. traffic to the site increased by 77% last year, and almost one in three bids were placed online. however, customers are still reluctant to buy the most expensive paintings through the internet – just two of the 719 works that sold for more than $1m (£630,000) were bought via online bidding. murphy said he remained optimistic about the market in 2012.
apple shares hit record high above $500 apple's shares broke above $500 for the first time on monday. it was the latest step in a rally that began more than two weeks ago, when the company reported staggering sales and profits for the holiday quarter. apple has been trading position as most valuable company in the world with exxon mobil since last summer, but the latest rally has made it 17% more valuable than the oil company. its market capitalisation is now $465bn, compared to exxon's $400bn. on 24 january, apple posted net income of $13.06bn for the quarter that ended in december, more than doubling its profits from the year before. sales were $46.3bn, up 73% from a year ago.
are stock markets stupid? how can the markets have failed to notice that the future of the eurozone stood on a knife edge? were they wantonly blind or stupid? as is so often the case in the closed world of stock and bond markets, they were neither. first they believed in the merkozy domination of europe. once french ppresident nicolas sarkozy acceded to german dominance and adopted chancellor angela merkel's austerity project, the eu was safe. all the rows and teeth-gnashing would be for nought. the merkozy machine is unstoppable. second, the outlook for big business is rosy. after a series of asset writedowns, job layoffs and cash hoarding, the major corporations are ready to benefit from a recovery. in fact, they hardly need a recovery, a flat economy will be fine. but global growth is expected to gather momentum, especially as the merkozy pressure on athens means the japanese, chinese and americans will stop worrying about a financial meltdown. the latest hsbc equity survey argues that companies are continuing to beat analysts' expectations. "in the us, 61% of companies that have reported so far have beaten estimates and 29% have missed (based on a sample of over 70% of the s&p 500 companies by market cap). this is in line with its long-run average and a bit weaker than we have seen in recent years," it says. "in europe, 53% have beaten estimates and 36% have missed, although only around one third of companies have reported. this is a modest improvement on q3. sales growth is coming in at 8% in the us and 5% in europe," it adds. the consensus for growth in earnings per share for europe is now 7% and hsbc says the shock this year might be that it is close to the mark. it forecasts 4% growth. another reason lies in the bond markets, which are increasingly seen as offering poor returns. the gap between safe havens and high returns has widened. safe havens, like us and german government bonds, are so popular that investors must pay to park their cash. countries like spain that offer high returns could still default, putting at risk the original investment. corporate bonds are limited in supply, driving down the yield and therefore the interest available to investors. it all presupposes the euro crisis is over. that's a big bet.
cable & wireless shares fall on results alert the company said its business in panama was facing increased competition and lower demand from corporate clients, and its earnings there would be around $254m (£160m) rather than the $270m-$295m it had been anticipating. it also had problems in jamaica, and planned to write down the value of that business in its full year figures. the news sent its shares tumbling 7.24p to 36.33p. in a sell note rory stokes at liberum capital said: "[a recent] refinancing has bought breathing space, but the very low cash generation of this business and the structural pressures it faces makes the net debt position look daunting and the dividend precarious." mining shares were among the leading fallers, both on the eurozone's economic problems and on renewed worries about a slowdown in china, a key market for commodity companies. according to the country's latest trade data, imports fell 15.3% year on year in january, raising new concerns about the state of its economy. in particular, copper imports dropped 18.7%.
farmville firm over the moon after hasbro deal the pixelated cows so many people now spend their lunch breaks playing with online will soon morph into figurines for their desks. pincus, 45, created zynga, which was named after his dead american bulldog, in 2007. the company, which was floated on the nasdaq in new york last year, now has a market value of $9.7bn (£6bn), making it worth more than sainsbury's or marks & spencer. forbes magazine estimates pincus has a paper fortune of more than $2bn. hasbro, which makes traditional favourites including monopoly and scrabble, said the first toys based on zynga's virtual creations would be on the shelves later this year. last year, rival mattel created a board-game version of the iphone game angry birds. brian goldner, chief executive of hasbro, said the deal was part of the company's plan to expand "from digital to analogue and back again". "zynga is redefining how people play. this strategic alliance plays off both hasbro's and zynga's proven strengths and is emblematic of the new innovations and new platforms we are creating across our entire gaming portfolio." sales of traditional board games are plummeting as consumers turn to colourful games on smartphones and touchscreen computers. hasbro's game and puzzle sales dropped 7% in the last three months of last year, following a 22% drop the year before. the number of people playing video games for at least an hour a month in the us has jumped by 141% to 135 million since 2008, according to the market research firm parks associates. farmville, which is one of the most popular games on facebook, allows users to harvest a virtual farm by planting and growing crops, trees and livestock. new gamers are given virtual coins to set up their farm, and revenue from matured crops can be used to maintain it. but gamers who are eager to progress can buy extra virtual coins using real cash. virtual goods, bought through hugely popular zynga games such as cityville and farmville, accounted for 12% ($445m) of facebook's $3.71bn revenue for 2011, according to documents filed by the ompany with the us financial regulator, the securities and exchange commission, earlier this month. facebook said social gaming apps built by developers – "particularly zynga" – generated most of its revenue from its payments platform. the four-year-old company, which claims 60 million people a day play its games, reported a net income of $31m in the first nine months of last year. the hasbro deal is expected to be expanded to allow zynga to create virtual versions of hasbro's games, which also include nerf guns and water pistols, my little pony and war board game risk. at present electronic arts holds the digital rights to zynga's games.
glencore and global food stocks food politics is genuinely complicated and rarely as it seems. russia's export ban was to dampen down internal prices to make food more affordable within the country (or to prevent the export of grain early in the year, only to be forced to buy it back later, perhaps at a higher price). argentina has also constrained exports, with the unintended consequence of lowering production. the eu has controlled exports for years (export licences, tariffs on imports, subsidies etc). eu control has caused more volatility in the grain market than a whole raft of speculators by subsidising exports up until 2006. when the eu could no longer shovel grain from store, global prices rose uncontrollably as the market realised that there was a shortage – we have not recovered. for the wealthy in the uk and eu, food is clearly not important. current eu proposals for 2014 include the removal of 7% of arable land from production and the imposition of an uneconomic rotation, with a consequent fall in production, with little or no environmental benefit. we already have a policy that is doing its best to kill off development of gm crop production. but don't worry, we are unlikely to suffer; we'll export starvation, along with our carbon emissions.
groupon loss disappoints wall street groupon, the daily deals website, has disappointed wall street expectations of a return to profit by reporting a $43m (£27m) fourth-quarter loss in its first set of results since joining the stock market late last year. the chicago-based company watched its shares crash 8.5% to $22.50 in after-hours trading after it emerged that a drive to cut costs prior to going public last november had failed to eliminate losses. analysts had hoped for a profit of three cents a share after groupon cut marketing budgets, but it reported a net loss of 8 cents a share for the final quarter of 2011. however, revenues beat forecasts, up 194% to $506.5m in the three months to 31 december, from $172m in the same period the year before. an uplift in trading, propelled by international expansion, meant groupon comfortably beat wall street's revenue predictions of $475m. international revenues of $981m for the full year now account for 60% of total income, and the company did succeed in making its first operating profit since international operations began in the second quarter of 2010, registering a modest $15m gain compared with $336m of losses a year ago. chief executive and cofounder andrew mason said groupon had saved its customers billions of dollars and would continue to invest in new services. annual revenues now total $1.6bn, up from $313m in 2010, and groupon had 33 million active customers – those who have bought from the website in the past 12 months – at the last count, up 20% quarter on quarter. some 26 million people have downloaded its mobile phone app. but after wednesday's maiden results, groupon shares are in danger of crashing once more below their $20 ipo price. the company raised $700m in what was the largest internet company ipo since google's $1.7bn debut in 2004, although the record was overtaken by games group zynga which sold $1bn of stock in its december offering.
what a previous big mining club deal can show us about the glencore offer andrew keen, analyst at hsbc, reminds us that bhp billiton initially offered a 21% premium when it bid for rio tinto at end of 2007. tom albanese, rio's boss, reckoned that was "ball parks" away from fair value. even when bhp raised its offer from three to 3.4 of its shares for every rio share, albanese protested about a "significant" undervaluation. the bhp/rio deal eventually dribbled away before shareholders had a chance to vote – it was killed by a combination of competition concerns and the collapse in commodity prices in 2008. but the point still holds: even with an all-share deal, bhp knew it had to offer a substantial takeover premium. by contrast, xstrata's management has agreed to sell out at a 8% premium based on the pre-leak share prices. even using the two firms' convoluted calculation based on xstrata's pre-leak price and glencore's post-leak price (apples and pears, in other words), the number still comes out at only 15%. by the bhp/rio yardstick, that's still extremely low. xstrata's shareholders are being asked to swallow hard and accept the terms because, as chief executive mick davis put it, he's working in "the universe of the possible". well, yes, glencore already owns 34% of xstrata, so there's no hope of generating a full auction. but how about flogging off parts of xstrata? keen reckons the copper assets, in particular, would be in high demand. he estimates they could be worth $50bn based on recent transactions in the sector – that would be equivalent to 69% of xstrata's enterprise value (equity plus debt) for a division contributing 47% of profits. that sounds a reasonable deal on paper. of course it's a fantasy until somebody makes such an offer – as davis might say, it's not part of today's universe. but it would make life interesting if a big miner, with a taste for mischief, made a cash-for-copper proposal to xstrata. that would stir the debate about xstrata's real value.
xstrata boss could cash in £6m from glencore merger however, davis has been quick to try to head off protest over a separate cash payment equal to a year's pay, bonus and benefits, due to a contract "change of control" clause. he said he would not collect the payout as he was staying on as chief executive of the enlarged group. a regular in the guardian's survey of executive pay, davis has a salary of $2m (£1.2m), a housing allowance of $183,000, and other perks, including life cover, amounting to more than $300,000. this is before his bonuses, which in 2010 amounted to $6.3m, as well as private use of the company leased aircraft when it does not clash with company requirements. other large payouts can be expected for the high-ranking bankers advising on the deal. thomson reuters' deals insight estimated they would earn $149.2m in advisory fees between them. some 18 are listed by the companies, based at banks such as jp morgan chase, deutsche bank, citigroup and morgan stanley. michael klein, the banker who left citigroup in 2008, is included as a "strategic consultant" to both companies.
glencore merger: xstrata shareholders vow to oppose deal "consequently, it is our intention to vote against the deal unless the merger terms for xstrata shareholders are materially improved." schroders also said it would vote against the deal as it was currently "not compelling". richard buxton, head of equities at schroders, said: "this is not acceptable. it is not compelling or attractive for xstrata shareholders and we will vote against. if they keep describing it as a merger of equals, why don't xstrata shareholders get 50%? we continue to think xstrata's assets and growth profile are superior to glencore. we had an opportunity to purchase glencore shares at flotation and chose not to. that was the right decision." the proposed share-based deal would offer xstrata shareholders 2.8 new shares in glencore. despite being described as a "merger of equals", the deal values xstrata at £39.1bn, a premium of almost 28% to its average price for the three months before the bidapproach. the combination to create the fourth largest global resources group was long anticipated even before glencore joined xstrata on the london stock market last year. the mining group is already 34% owned by glencore and the two firms' have headquarters in switzerland just a few miles apart. both have been shaped by deal-hungry chief executives – davis at xstrata and ivan glasenberg at glencore – who were friends at university in south africa. however, the move by standard life and schroders underlines determination among institutional investors not to allow too cosy a deal. under current proposals, the merger would only go ahead if it received 75% approval among xstrata shareholders excluding glencore. that means rebel shareholders would have to speak for only 16.5% of shares in the mining group to derail the merger. the two groups confirmed that the enlarged business, to be called glencore xstrata international, would be led by davis with glasenberg as his "deputy ceo and president". similarly, the finance director's role would go to xstrata's trevor reid, while glencore's finance director steven kalmin is to serve as deputy. despite apparently taking the lesser executive roles, the glencore team will remain a powerful force on the share register. the top 12 executives currently control almost a third of the commodity trading company. there has already been some speculation about how relaxed glasenberg would be about ceding control to davis. both are frequently described as "big egos". in an uncharacteristically deferential statement, the glencore boss said: "i look forward to supporting mick and working as part of what i am confident will be the leading team in the resources sector." he added: "i have worked with mick for 10 years and mick has been running a public company for 10 years – longer than i have." overseeing what is likely to be a crowded and opinionated board will be xstrata's existing chairman sir john bond, one of the ftse 100's most experienced boardroom heads after having served as chairman of vodafone and hsbc. davis said the planned combination was "the logical next step for two complementary businesses", while glasenberg said it created "a new powerhouse in the global commodities industry". davis said the opinions of the two critical shareholders were not representative of the majority. "the silent majority find it intriguing and appealing," he said. despite being listed in london, where it will be one of the 10 largest businesses quoted on the stock market, the enlarged company, as with its predecessors, will have very little presence in britain. it will continue under glencore's corporate structure, which is to be headquartered in switzerland and incorporated in jersey for tax reasons. davis said: "sources of supply are diverging from traditional mining regions to more complex and disparate locations, with a range of new industry participants seeking access to markets. at the same time, demand growth has shifted from europe, japan and the us, to emerging asian economies. the commodities value chain is becoming longer and more complex, creating opportunities for a company that can pre-emptively participate at every stage."
how £50m in un food aid for starving went to buy wheat from glencore glencore international, which buys up supplies from farmers and sells them on at a profit, was the biggest single supplier of wheat to the wfp over the last eight months, the guardian can reveal. details of the dealings with glencore, which controls 8% of the global wheat market, emerged a year after the head of the wfp committed to buying food from local farmers. raj patel, an economist expert in the global food trade and former un employee, said it was shocking how much food aid money was "funnelling to one of the largest commodity traders". the rising price of wheat has squeezed the incomes of millions of the world's poorest people. many have been forced to turn to the wfp, which last year fed more than 90 million people in 73 countries. in the biggest single deal, the wfp bought $22.5m of glencore wheat in july last year to feed ethiopians in one the worst famines in recent memory. the wfp also bought glencore wheat, sorghum and yellow split peas for kenya, djibouti, bangladesh, sudan, north korea and palestine. last month the wfp spent $10.8m on wheat for drought-stricken djibouti. the company said: "there were increased geographic arbitrage opportunities [buying commodities cheaper in order to sell them on later at a higher price] available in wheat and edible oils." it said the average wheat price of a bushel [8 gallons] of wheat increased by 60% over the previous year to $778. a spokeswoman for the wfp said: "as a humanitarian agency that depends entirely on voluntary donations we always aim to get the most competitive price when purchasing food on the open markets. rising food prices do have an impact on our budget and they can be driven up by any number of factors, including speculation." glencore said it won the wfp tenders because "we were able to offer the commodities needed at the lowest possible price". rob bailey, a senior research fellow in food security at chatham house in london, said the wfp often buys from traders such as glencore, cargill and viterra, because food donations are not available and local farmers cannot provide the quantities needed. "it is concerning that the world food programme is left at the whim of international markets precisely when prices are high," he said. "such crisis periods of high volatility are also when the big traders make the most money, because they have the best information on likely supply and demand and how markets are going to evolve, allowing them to take positions in the market to turn profits." john hilary, the executive director of the war on want, said: "glencore's self-confessed speculation on grain markets last year forced up prices at a time of world shortage, driving more people into extreme hunger. the wfp needs to rethink its priorities and support local markets rather than corporate giants such as glencore." glencore admitted that it bet on a rising wheat price after drought in russia, according to investment bank ubs. "[glencore's] agricultural team received very timely reports from russia farm assets that growing conditions were deteriorating aggressively in the spring and summer of 2010, as the russian drought set in … this put it in a position to make proprietary trades going long on wheat and corn," ubs said in a report to potential investors, disclosed by the financial times. on monday glencore said ubs's account of its role in the russian grain crisis was "simply untrue. in any case, the export ban did not help our business". a spokesman said: "we share the view that financial speculation in agricultural products markets can be harmful. our business is physical – we produce, buy, store and blend agricultural commodities. "we bridge the gap between harvests that last for a couple of weeks and demand which is fairly constant throughout the year. "because we are physical holders, we are always net sellers in the agricultural products futures markets which actually has a downward effect on the prices of agricultural products futures." glencore is on tuesday expected to announce plans to merge with mining group xstrata to become one of the 10 biggest companies listed on the london stock market. it will be the latest move in glencore's journey from secretive trading house founded by marc rich, a commodities traderwho was charged by us authorities with selling oil to iran during the 1979-81 hostage crisis, to global powerhouse in the sale of commodities from copper and coal to sugar and wheat. davis, already one the highest paid executives in the ftse 100, is likely to be offered a "golden handcuffs" deal to stay at the company. a change of control clause could also see davis collect an additional £10.7m in long-term shares. the deal is likely to see glencore pay about an 8% premium to buy up the xstrata shares it does not already own. tony hayward, the former boss of bp, is likely to be appointed the senior independent director of the combined company, which will have more than 120,000 staff across five continents.
there's a case for ending qe but will the bank of england listen? this, though, is not what the city expects. as far as the markets are concerned it is not a question this week of whether the monetary policy committee (mpc) embarks on a third round of money creation under the quantitative easing (qe) process, but rather how big the boost will be. the betting is on a £50bn injection, which would take the total to £325bn. the fact that the bank is even considering a further easing of policy is testimony to the profound weakness of the uk economy. for the past three years, bank rate has been 0.5% – comfortably the lowest level on record – and despite the pain being felt by savers there is no sign of it going up any time soon. the bank has bought up some 20% of the gilts market already in an attempt to boost the money supply. meanwhile, the treasury has borrowed £500bn since the economy went into recession in early 2008. even so, the level of national output is still 4% below where it was at the peak of the economic cycle and at the current rate of progress will take until the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the first world war before regaining the lost ground. those seven lost years will have cost the uk economy around £200bn in output. the argument that this unprecedented policy response from the bank and the treasury has had little traction on the economy is valid, but misses the point: namely that without the easing of both monetary- and fiscal-policy activity the economy would have been substantially weaker and unemployment markedly higher. secondly, prices tend to be "stickier" in the uk than in other developed countries, so there is no guarantee that inflation will come down as quickly as the mpc thinks – even when one-off factors such as last year's vat rise cease to have an impact. internationally, the news has also been better: activity in the eurozone as a whole (if not in some of its constituent members) looks to be bottoming out, while the latest jobs news from the us economy was strong. greece is on the point of getting its debt relief from its private sector creditors, and the pressure has eased on italy and spain. we are back to where we were in early 2009: when the global economy was starting to recover but the mood was so gloomy that nobody could spot the upswing. the final point is this: at some stage the bank will need to unwind the monetary easing of the past three and a half years, selling gilts back into the financial markets. this is going to be tricky to achieve without leading to a collapse in the price of government bonds, and the more bonds the bank has to sell the trickier it is going to be. this matters because the price of gilts goes in inverse proportion to the yield or interest rate payable on them. when the price of gilts goes down, long-term interest rates go up, so the challenge for the bank is to unwind qe without triggering a run on gilts that would push the economy back into recession. even so, it would come as a surprise if, at noon on thursday, the bank announced that it was adopting a suck-it-and-see approach. threadneedle street is unlikely to be swayed by the recent survey evidence, and will note that the service sector's purchasing managers' index (pmi) does not include retail spending, which looks to have been weak in early 2012 as consumers retrench after a christmas spending spree. there are two concerns about the state of the eurozone. the first is that even if greece's debt can be put on a sustainable footing (and that looks highly improbable), portugal is showing worrying signs that it will need a second bailout. exhaustive efforts by the european commission and the international monetary fund (imf) to make greece a special case look doomed to fail. the second concern is that while the ecb's long-term refinancing operations have stabilised the eurozone economy, the intractable structural issues – a lack of competitiveness in the weaker economies, the self-defeating nature of generalised austerity – remain unresolved. when it announced the second round of qe back in november, it was the state of europe that forced the bank's hand. given the frequent false dawns over the past year, the chances of a further flare-up in the crisis remains high. what concerns the bank is not just the direct trade links between the uk and its continental partners but the potential for any freezing up of the european financial system to be transmitted across the channel into an intensification of the credit crunch.
facebook ipo: six things you need to know any day now, perhaps as early as wednesday, facebook will announce it is going public. the firm is looking to raise $10bn selling shares in an initial public offering (ipo) that will value the firm at somewhere between $75bn-$100bn, according to reports. not bad for a seven-year-old firm that has only recently started making money and apparently made $1bn last year. it will be the biggest tech ipo since google, and investors (and rivals) will finally get to see what makes mark zuckerberg's social network. that's the big question. this is the most hyped ipo in years, and if the company is valued at less than $75bn, that wiill be seen as a major setback on wall street. even at the low end, facebook would be worth more than disney (valued at $70bn). the company has 850 million users, more than the combined populations of the us, brazil and mexico. but what are they worth? facebook has already overtaken yahoo to become number one in online display advertising revenues, taking 16.3% of the market, says emarketer, a research firm. emarketer reckons facebook's ad revenue will be $7bn by 2013. but for comparison disney's revenues were over $40bn last year. facebook's outsize valuation is a big bet on a big future. what will i notice? not much – at least to start with. facebook is no stranger to innovation: its news feed, "like" buttons and timeline are just some examples of how the company has evolved over time—and users are likely to continue to see changes with or without the ipo. "their internal slogan is: 'facebook's only 1% finished'," says nate elliott, a principal analyst focusing on interactive marketing at forrester research. "we will continue to see changes in facebook between now and when they go public – and after. i don't think any of those changes will be a function of the ipo." so: same old, same old? not really. as a public company, anything facebook does will be parsed by analysts looking for how it will hit the bottom line. the best way to do this is by more targeted advertising, say analysts. catherine tucker, a marketing and it professor at mit's sloan school of management, expects facebook to ramp up what she calls "social advertising" efforts, where ads are served up to users based on their friends' preferences. for instance, if i "like" whole foods on facebook, you, as my friend, are presumed to harbour a preference for organic food as well – hence you are more likely to see a whole foods advertisement when you log on. does this mean you should be concerned about how facebook handles your information? "facebook is probably going to face some difficult balancing issues, in terms of meeting its new shareholders' expressed desire to exploit the data they have with the fact that if they exploit the data too much it can drag down the effectiveness of advertising," says tucker. why bother? facebook has to pay off its early investors, and it now has too many shareholders to stay private. but more than that, facebook could use the cash. google has $50bn of cash to spend snapping up start-ups. after it went public, google bought key chunks of its business, including youtube and ad firm doubleclick. facebook could raise $10bn in the ipo, enough cash to make some big purchases. debra aho williamson, principal analyst at emarketer, expects facebook will use its ipo cash to strengthen its mobile site. "facebook has always lagged a little bit behind in delivering a really solid user experience on mobile devices," she says. "as facebook moves into markets where mobile is the primary way people access the internet, it is important to deliver a good mobile experience." what are the risks? alongside apple, facebook is arguably the hottest company on the planet. but it's not easy to stay hot (just look at apple before steve jobs came back). nearly all of the hot ideas online have come from start-ups, not public companies, and there's a reason for that. public companies have to be accountable, and that accountability often means lopping off freewheeling, creative endeavoirs that you hope will make money and concentrating on making cash with what you have. google used to boast that staff spent 20% of their time on whatever they wanted. not any more. last year it closed google labs – "a playground where our more adventurous users can play around with prototypes of some of our wild and crazy ideas." labs was culled so google could devote more resources to "high-impact products" – for which you can read ones that make money. from now on facebook will have to do its innovating in public, and will be answerable to shareholders as well as its users.
carpetright issues profit warning carpetright, britain's biggest seller of flooring materials, has issued another profit warning, its sixth in a year. its uk sales fell by 4.5% in the three months to 21 january, with like-for-likes down 0.5%, compared to the same time last year. lord harris of peckham, the firm's chairman, said: "we expect that underlying pre-tax profits for the full year will be slightly below the lower end of the range of market expectations. "looking forward, i see no respite from the challenging environment over the next 12 months but remain confident the group will emerge in a strong position … once demand improves.," he said.
facebook's market listing is imminent – but does it have google's potential? papers must be filed soon if facebook wishes to press ahead with plans for a may public offering. the world's leading social site, with 800 million members worldwide, is expected to sell off a 10% stake for between $7.5bn (£4.8bn) and $10bn, implying an overall value of $75bn to $100bn. the bulk of facebook's income will be from advertisers. wpp, the world's biggest marketing services group, already spends $200m a year with facebook, an eighth of the $1.6bn it pays to google. a vote of confidence, but wpp chief executive sir martin sorrell has "fundamental doubts" about the extent to which social platforms can be monetised. mark zuckerberg was initially cautious about foisting advertising on his followers, to the extent that it led to a parting of ways with his co-founder and harvard friend eduardo saverin. the commercial coyness is long gone, and moves to monetise the audience with new forms of advertising have often provoked backlashes. facebook's beacon ad system, which monitored members' activity on partner websites and then publicised these movements on their facebook news feeds, so outraged users it led to a class action lawsuit. beacon was shut down in 2009. another legal claim was given the go-ahead in california in december, from users unhappy that if they clicked the 'like' button on a company's page, facebook could use that member's image and name in an advert endorsing the same company. the experience of myspace, britain's bebo and friends reunited would suggest these forums can be passing fads, whose users are quickly drawn to other novelties. the social network founded eight years ago in zuckerberg's harvard dorm room has soared in membership while rivals melted away, but google is biting at its heels. the search giant recently pegged staff bonuses to the success of its own social offering, google+, and the effect has been dramatic. its membership ramped up to 90m users in january, having doubled in three months. there are signs that facebook's membership is reaching saturation point in its biggest markets. the number of uk monthly visitors fell 2.2% to 32m from november to december, while us visitors declined 2.1% to 166m, says web measurement firm comscore. its worldwide audience is still growing, however, adding 1.4m visitors from november to december, boosted by rapid growth in brazil and india. the deep level of penetration in small or remote nations like the falkland islands (75% of inhabitants are users according to research site socialbakers) and iceland (68%) suggests that in some communities facebook has become not just a pastime but a social service, integrated into the fabric of everyday life. "for some users facebook is the internet," says comscore european managing director mike read. he identifies two trends that point to success for zuckerberg. "facebook's user base is growing and the amount of time people are spending online individually is growing. not only is the audience maturing, the way in which people use facebook in a commercial sense is maturing." once membership stops growing in mature markets, increasing the amount of time each user spends on facebook will become a crucial measure of its success. in october 2010, the average user idled away 4.5 hours a month on facebook. this rose to 6.5 hours in december 2011. if facebook can imitate google by becoming a landing page from which users access games, video, music or online shops, the advertising money should follow. it is already the largest internet display – as opposed to search – medium in the uk, with 18bn ads seen on the site in december compared to 4bn for its next largest rival, yahoo. but online display is still embryonic compared with the millions once poured into newspaper and magazine advertising. facebook has not shared its numbers for 2011, but the most recent leak suggests earnings of $1.5bn on revenues of $3.8bn. a $100bn valuation would equal 66 times earnings and 26 times revenues. in 2004, google was valued at $23bn, around 67 times its 2003 earnings and 24 times its revenues. after disappointing performances from games group zynga and coupon network groupon, facebook may prefer to avoid a fall in the weeks after it goes public by pricing at the lower end of expectations. trades in the firm's privately held equity, through services like sharespost, imply a $83.5bn valuation. guessing is a dangerous game. "perhaps it is worth $100bn, who knows," says sorrell. "i thought $15bn was too much. more fool me." facebook's roster of celebrity backers, which ranges from bono and microsoft to russian billionaire yuri milner would suggest something of a bubble, but its ability to attract investors has continually defied expectations.
facebook's quietly confident ipo we'll know for sure soon enough. we'll also know how much money the company makes selling ads next to all of our embarrassing party photos and banal status updates. spoiler alert: it's a shedload.. and then there's groupon: the discount group-buying site thing that originally priced at $20 at a share, enjoyed a day-one increase of 31% but is currently trading back down at $19.6. like zynga's pincus, groupon's ceo andrew mason is a renowned loudmouth. when, as often happens, critics took advantage of groupon's quiet period to write negative reviews of the company, mason came up with a breathtakingly ham-fisted way of fighting back. he wrote a series of "private" memos to staff addressing the criticisms – memos which, wouldn't you know it, ended up being leaked to the press. the sec was, to put it mildly, unamused. but even if zuckerberg was mindful to respond to critics, it's hard to know what's left to respond to. facebook has been more carefully scrutinised than a three-time presidential candidate. there have been dozens of books, tens of thousands of articles and all kinds of legal scrutiny over the years. the company's scandals have all been covered and re-covered to the point where there's barely anything left to know. so, while wall street might be salivating over the events of the next few months, and while the few major shareholders who haven't already cashed out are about to get very rich, for the rest of us there's likely to be only one surprising thing about facebook's ipo. and that's just how dull a $100bn flotation can be.
congress to subject itself to harsher penalties on insider trading aware that most americans would like to dump them all, members of congress hope to regain some sense of trust by policing itself with tougher penalties for insider trading and requiring they disclose stock transactions within 30 days. a procedural vote monday would allow the senate later this week to pass a bill prohibiting members of congress from using nonpublic information for their own personal benefit or "tipping" others to inside information that they could trade on. insider trading laws apply to all americans, but cbs's 60 minutes in november said members of congress get a pass, citing investment transactions by party leaders and a committee chairman in businesses about to be affected by pending legislation. the broadcast report raised questions about trades of house speaker john boehne; the husband of democratic leader and former speaker nancy pelosi of california; and representative spencer bachus, chairman of the house financial services committee. all three denied using any insider information to make stock trades, but the broadcast set off a flurry of efforts in washington to deal with the public perception. a recent wall street journal/nbc news poll of registered voters found 56% of them favor replacing the entire 535-member congress. other polls this year have given congress an approval rating between 11% and 13%, while disapproval percentages have ranged from 79% to 86%. house majority leader eric cantor said he's working on an expanded bill that would go beyond stock transactions and ban lawmakers from making land deals and other investments based on what they learned as members of congress. the senate version of the stop trading on congressional knowledge (stock) act would subject any member of congress who violates the ban on insider trading to investigation and prosecution by regulatory agencies and the justice department. it also directs the house and senate ethics committees to write rules that would make violators subject to additional congressional penalties. president barack obama endorsed the bill in in state of the union speech last week, saying he would "sign it tomorrow." brown used that opening to briefly speak with the president as he was exiting the house chamber after tuesday's address. "the insider trading bill's on harry's desk right now," brown told obama, referring to senate majority leader harry reid. "tell him to get it out, it's already there." "i'm gonna tell him," answered obama. "i'm gonna tell him, i'm gonna tell him to get it done." obama raised the issue again in his radio and internet address on saturday. "the house and senate should send me a bill that bans insider trading by members of congress, and i will sign it immediately. they should limit any elected official from owning stocks in industries they impact," he said.
facebook will need lots of friends to justify a $100bn flotation the excitement is palpable. facebook is already the stuff of hollywood movies. this would be the hottest tech flotation since google and would create a listed company that could, by some estimates, be worth $100bn, more than disney and five times the value of yahoo, the company that once nearly bought founder mark zuckerberg out for $1bn. so what would life look like for facebook after an ipo – and why does it need to go public? "the company doesn't need to raise cash for its business: it's not like they are building factories," says one analyst close to the action, who wishes to remain anonymous for fear of appearing a party pooper. "this is about paying off investors." it's also about size. facebook now has more than 500 private shareholders, a point at which it has to start reporting figures to the us securities and exchange commission. so it is looking increasingly inevitable that it will join lesser social-media lights, such as linkedin, groupon and zynga, on the us stock market. none of this new wave of dotcom flotations has lived up to the initial hype but facebook is a different beast. more than 800m people have facebook accounts. more than half its active users log on in any given day and they all share information that advertisers find increasingly valuable. on top of this – unlike myspace, the social network that boomed and busted – facebook has established itself as its own universe for other businesses. zynga, the social gaming firm behind online phenomena such as words with friends and farmville, relies on facebook for most of its business. according to the company, on average, facebook users install apps more than 20m times every day. the company has created its own ecosystem of linked companies, a world where some of the most talented tech-heads on the planet dedicate themselves to coming up with new ways to attract people to facebook with their apps. the company even turns a profit – reportedly more than $1bn last year, double what it made in 2010. but that pace of growth, and what lies behind it, will come under unprecedented scrutiny if and when facebook goes public. if the stock market values the firm at $100bn, "they are going to need to grow revenue at a healthy clip to justify that valuation," warns colin gillis, an analyst at bgc partners. the big advantage to a flotation for facebook is money, says sam hamadeh, chief executive of privco, an analyst specialising in private companies. facebook has tended to "acqui-hire" talent – that is, buying small companies to add to its talent pool. the ipo will give it cash to buy firms and compete with google, which has $50bn on hand. "zynga has bought four private companies in the three months since its ipo," points out hamadeh. but the big negative is scrutiny. "you have to deliver every quarter," says hamadeh. other tech companies, including google, have tried to shake off the tyranny of managing a business for the quarterly results, but ultimately if you go public, you end up playing the game, he warns. "for a little while it's cute, but not for long," he says. and it's not just institutional shareholders who lose patience: staff with shares do too. but in order to do that, zuckerberg is going to have to live up to facebook's admittedly big promise. a $100bn flotation would value facebook's members at about $125 apiece. alan patrick, co-founder of the technology consultancy broadsight, calculates that google's customers are worth about 15 times that – and that for facebook to justify $100bn, it will have to prove it can approach those sort of numbers. "everything has to go right for facebook for a very long time," says patrick. it will prove to be the defining ipo of this tech cycle, he believes. "it's of an order of magnitude bigger than anything that has gone before." but for all the hype – which, if anything, is about to get even more intense – there will be a lot to prove. "it's a classic dotcom sales pitch: 'you could imagine if – dot dot dot'," says patrick. investors will be able to join their own dots once facebook goes public. then we will see how many friends it really has.
facebook set to file for flotation facebook could fire the starting gun on the biggest-ever technology company flotation by filing papers for an initial public offering as early as next week. facebook is expected to offer a 10% stake, raising up to $10bn in an exercise which could also make millions in fees for banks and other advisers. the appointment of morgan stanley as lead book-runner would be a blow to goldman sachs, which was seen as the frontrunner after arranging a $1.5bn private offering of facebook shares in january last year. the float would dwarf google's 2004 listing, which is still the largest american internet stock market float. the search engine giant raised $1.9bn, based on a valuation for the entire company of $23bn. expectations of an imminent filing with the us securities and exchange commission, the precursor to any public offering, have been high since wednesday, when facebook suspended trading of its shares on the private secondary market. the california company's law firm, fenwick & west, said it would not approve transactions until friday, the end of the week, according to us reports. suspensions are normal practice before public offerings, to limit insider dealing until all the information about the company is made public.
market close
dow opens down as wall street awaits bernanke the dow is down around 80 points, or 0.6%, to 12,596 while the standard & poor's 500 index is off about 0.5% to 1,311. information technology is the only sector really bucking the trend following those strong numbers from apple. shortly after noon (5pm gmt), the fed will offer details about how long it plans to keep interest rates at the current low levels, which is an issue extremely close to wall street's heart. access to credit is seen as vital for economic recovery, while low interest rates also encourage the purchase of shares as they keep the returns traders earn from bonds low. traders are also fretting about the slow progress in talks between greece and its private bondholders, where the debt-stricken country is asking if its lenders might be kind enough to reduce the nation's crushing debt. for some reason, wall street and the city seems to think the whole thing is dragging a touch.
facebook plans $10bn may stock offering
shares in costa concordia owner collapse however, analysts said the costs are likely to be far greater. "this tragedy will be a black mark on the cruise industry and a negative headline for carnival. while it is too early to measure the impact on bookings, financials and legal consequences, the concordia represents 1.6% of fleet capacity and 10.2% of costa capacity. given the extensive damage reported, it appears possible that the ship is a constructive total loss," said tim ramskill, analyst at credit suisse. "if the industry already didn't face enough challenges (fuel price volatility, capacity absorption, and weakness in the european economy) this unfortunate event will reverberate on the group over the near-term. while these accidents are extremely rare, the extensive media coverage will likely curtail some booking activity and pressure pricing during the critical season." wyn ellis, an analyst at numis securities, said: "there will, justifiably, be questions about the adequacy of management and emergency operational procedures on board which may have longer term cost implications." he said the tragedy has happened at a "key point in the booking cycle," as holidaymakers typically book european cruises for summer holidays several months in advance. ian rennardson, at jeffries, warned that the disaster, which killed at least six people and injured 60, may spark a collapse in cruising. "all of carnival's ships meet or exceed current health and safety laws. but people could be put off cruising, at least for a time. looking at booking patterns after major air crashes shows that booking patterns return to previous levels relatively quickly." he also warned that the company's five other ships of the same design may have to be taken out of service for safety checks. "this, if it were to happen, would clearly have a larger negative effect on forecasts. carnival does not insure against loss of revenues or earnings from its ships. it does have protection & indemnity (p&i) insurance that covers crew and guest injury claims as well as shipwreck removal, pollution and damage to third-party property. it also has hull and machinery insurance. carnival has quantified its excess on its insurance as $40m." micky arison, carnival's chairman and chief executive, whose family owns 47% of the company, said: "at this time, our priority is the safety of our passengers and crew. we are deeply saddened by this tragic event and our hearts go out to everyone affected by the grounding of the costa concordia, and especially to the families and loved ones of those who lost their lives. they will remain in our thoughts and prayers." arison, who also owns nba basketball team miami heat, is the 75th richest person in america according to forbes magazine with a net worth of $4.5bn. arison collected $7m in pay and bonuses from carnival in 2010. his pay for 2011 is due to be made public next month.
eurozone in new crisis as ratings agency downgrades nine countries the humiliating loss of france's top-rated status leaves germany as the only other major economy inside the eurozone with a aaa rating, and rekindled financial market anxiety about a possible break-up of the single currency. the agency said that its actions on eurozone ratings were "primarily driven by insufficient policy measures by eu leaders to fully address systemic stresses". it added that fiscal austerity alone "risks becoming self-defeating". but french finance minister françois baroin downplayed the move, saying it was "not a catastrophe". european finance ministers tried to control the crisis by pledging to agree a new treaty to tighten fiscal rules at a summit at the end of this month. however, the deputy prime minister, nick clegg, said that what europe needed was more concerted action by all 27 eu member states rather than "more treaties". "just dealing with the fiscal side of things which of course is absolutely essential – it is one side of the equation – must be accompanied by a more concerted effort, which i believe is best done with all 27 countries involved, to raise our productivity." speaking on a visit to dublin, clegg said: "we don't need to reach for new treaties or agreements or policies. we know what we need to do. we need to complete the single market and create a dynamic and greater growth in the eu to help us out of these problems." britain was not at risk of a downgrade from s&p, but berlin sought to soften the blow to french pride when a german politician close to angela merkel said the uk should have been first in line for a cut in its aaa status on the grounds that its collective private and public sector debts are the largest in europe. michael fuchs, deputy leader of the christian democrats, said: "this step is out of order. standard and poor's must stop playing politics. why doesn't it act on the highly indebted united states or highly indebted britain?" he added: "if the agency downgrades france, it should also downgrade britain in order to be consistent." mohamed el-erian, head of the bond trading giant pimco, predicted serious long-term consequences. he told newsnight that the move "places a wedge in the centre of the eurozone, making a solution much more difficult". the ftse 100 dropped 100 points before recovering late in the day to finish down 26 points at 5636, while the dow jones in new york fell 120 points to 12350 by afternoon trading before recovering some ground by the close. investors piled into safe haven assets such as the dollar, while the uk was rewarded with even lower borrowing costs as 10-year bonds slipped below 2%. the greek government said talks with its creditors would resume on wednesday, but analysts voiced concerns that hedge funds were blocking a deal that involves them writing off 50% of their loans. germany considers greece to be the main faultline in the euro crisis and is urgently seeking a resolution to talks over a deal, but has insisted brussels holds out for a private sector deal. officials hinted on friday night that greece could default on 100% of its loans if the private sector refuses to come back to the negotiating table and accept a voluntary agreement. a spokesman for the troika said: "we very much hope, however, that greece, with the support of the euro area, will be in a position to re-engage constructively with the private sector with a view to finalising a mutually acceptable agreement on a voluntary debt exchange consistent with the october 26/27 agreement, in the best interest of both greece and the euro area." unprecedented action by the european central bank in recent weeks had reassured many investors that policymakers were getting on top of the crisis. the ecb has lent more than €400bn to eurozone banks to bolster their reserves and prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crunch. but the s&p downgrades are likely to undermine these efforts and make foreign banks wary of lending to their counterparts in europe. graham neilson, chief investment strategist at cairn capital, warned: "this is just the start. there will be more to come, and not just in europe – there is simply still too much debt and not enough growth in developed economies." france has already shown its anger at the prospect of a downgrade. central bank chief christian noyer raised eyebrows in london before christmas when he said britain "has more deficits, as much debt, more inflation, less growth than us".
q&a: why is a aaa credit rating the gold standard? they will try, but eurozone countries have borrowed hundreds of billions from overseas lenders, many of them banks and hedge funds; these lenders want to judge the risk of losing their money and pay close attention to ratings given by the two agencies. interest rates go up, and states find it more expensive to service debts. when rates hit 7% it becomes difficult to find lenders at all – greece, portugal and ireland had instead to ask brussels for loans; italy and spain are close to needing a bailout. nicolas sarkozy has battled hard to maintain france's aaa status, but his determination to keep the eurozone together has lumped more costs on france; meanwhile, its exports have faltered, and the government cannot generate enough income to meet its long-term welfare commitments, let alone give extra support for other debt-laden countries. on most measures it would rank alongside france and be vulnerable to a downgrade: george osborne has admitted missing debt reduction targets, and our banks have huge loans in ireland and spain. but our independent central bank has spent £275bn propping up the uk's financial system, and the pound's flexible exchange rate has effectively cut 25% off our debt to foreign investors. yes. they agreed with major banks that derivatives sold to other banks deserved a aaa rating, when they were full of us mortgage debt and highly toxic. now they argue that their sovereign ratings [for nation states] are done in separate departments, and continue to be an independent service.
apple's stock has never been higher apple is not the first company to be worth more than $500bn (£315bn) – but, with its equity value passing that landmark on tuesday, it is the only business in the world currently priced that highly. during the dotcom boom in 2000, microsoft, intel, cisco and ge passed that level, with exxon mobil reaching $500bn in 2009. none of them are near it now, and apple is worth $90bn more than the oil company. it is not just the technology that is causing the excitement among investors. apple has $100bn of cash on the balance sheet, and analysts are hoping the company will use some of that stockpile to pay out a dividend. it is not all plain sailing, however. a chinese court is hearing apple's appeal of a ruling against its right to use the ipad trademark in china. the company is in dispute with proview electronics, which it says sold it the rights to the ipad trademark in 10 different countries, including china, in 2009. to put apple's value into perspective, only 20 countries in the world have a gross domestic product worth more than $500bn. in the uk, the largest company in the ftse 100 by value is the anglo-dutch oil firm royal dutch shell, which is worth just under £150bn. while apple has seen off the us oil giants, britain's technology businesses have yet to achieve the same feat.
dow jones closes above 13,000 for first time since market crash the dow closed above 13,000 on tuesday for the first time since 19 may 2008, almost four months before the fall of the lehman brothers investment bank triggered the worst of the financial crisis. according to preliminary calculations, the dow finished at 13,005.12, up 23.61 points for the day. "people can see that the markets bounce back and are resilient over time," said marc scudillo, managing officer at eisneramper, a financial advice company in bridgewater, new jersey. "that's a powerful message." the average first pierced 13,000 last tuesday, then floated above the milestone again on friday and monday, but it could not hold the mark. a 6% rally in the dow this year has stalled as worries build on wall street about climbing prices for oil and gasoline. on tuesday, the dow got the final push from a report that consumer confidence jumped in february to its highest level in a year. improved perceptions of the job market made the difference. the report, which came out at 10am, lifted the dow over 13,000, and it stayed there for most of the day. "two months ago, we were talking about a double-dip recession. now consumer confidence is growing," said ryan detrick, senior technical strategist for schaffer's investment research. "a major milestone like 13,000 wakes up a lot of investors who have missed a lot of this rally." the breaking of the 13,000 barrier continues a remarkable run for stocks this year. the dow started with its best january since 1997 and has added to the gains. the index is up 6.5% for the young year. other averages have fared even better: the standard & poor's 500 is up 9%, the russell 2000 index of smaller stocks is up 11%, and the nasdaq composite index, dominated by technology stocks, is up 14%. the other major indexes also sit at multi-year highs. the s&p closed tuesday at its highest level since june 2008, and the nasdaq has not traded so high since december 2000, during the bursting of the bubble in technology stocks. just last august, the dow dropped 2,000 points in three frightening weeks. investors were worried about the european debt crisis, gridlock in washington over the federal borrowing limit, a downgrade of the us credit rating and the threat of another recession. after labor day, recession fears melted away. since then, the stock market has been engaged in a tug-of-war between optimism over the improving american economy and fear that crisis in europe would derail the us recovery. the optimists have been winning. the dow cruised to 13,000 the old-fashioned way, riding the economy higher. the unemployment rate has come down five months in a row, the first time that has happened since 1994. the economy added 243,000 jobs in january, among the three best months since 2006. gains were surprisingly robust in industries across the economy, including the strongest hiring in manufacturing in a year. and while the housing market remains weak, the economy did grow faster every quarter of last year. in the stock market, the improving economy has translated into slow, steady gains — about 20 points a day for the dow averaged over the eight weeks. the index has gained more than 100 points on only three days, and it has not fallen 100 points on any day. seven of the 10 industry groups within the s&p 500 index were higher, with information technology and consumer discretionary stocks leading the way. utility stocks, traditionally solid investments in a weak economy, were lower. the dow first cracked 13,000 on 25 april 25 2007, when the unemployment rate was 4.5%, far below today's 8.3%, and when the economy was growing at a relatively healthy clip. from there, it was a quick ride to the dow's all-time high. the average crossed 14,000 in july 2007, then peaked at 14,164.53 on 9 october 2007. concerns about weak corporate earnings and tighter credit were already haunting the market, though. the trip back down to 13,000 was less pleasant. it took little more than a month. ten months later came the fall of lehman brothers and the financial meltdown. the dow hit bottom on 9 march 2009, at 6,547.05. analysts say the stock market has grown accustomed to lingering threats this year, including a debt crisis in europe and an economic recovery in the us that is still not as strong as economists would like. the price of gasoline has emerged as the latest worry. a gallon of regular costs $3.72 on average. the price has risen 21 days in a row. economists worry about whether gas will climb high enough to cut into consumer spending in the rest of the economy. john manley, chief equity strategist for wells fargo's funds group, said investors haven't forgotten the "black swans" surrounding the market — a term traders use for events outside of what is normally predicted. "we know that profits eventually have to come down, we know that something will happen in the middle east, we know that greece isn't going to do everything it says it's going to do. we're seeing black swans everywhere," manley said. he added: "but these issues have been around for a while."
michael douglas, aka gordon gekko, recants: greed is not good milken and the other self styled masters of the universe epitomised much of what had gone wrong with us stock markets and their demise was hastened by the stock market crash of 1987. by the 1990's, the avarice of the previous decade seemed to have been replaced - greed had gone out of fashion, or so we were led to believe. .
investing in shares: is this the start of a new bull run? but this week neptune investment management, one of the more successful "boutiques" of recent years, put its neck on the line and said 2012 will turn out to be a vintage year to invest. firms have stronger balance sheets, greater cash flow and are in surprising financial health given the woes of the wider economy. despite this, it says, valuations on shares are well below historic averages. "we believe that now is a great time for long-term investors to be looking at the uk stock market," says neptune. investors fed up with one false dawn after the next – and who have lost out while fund managers have extracted juicy fees and bonuses – will rightly feel cynical. so, we asked an eclectic selection of pundits for their views on: is it really a good time to invest in shares? in any case, the economies in the bulk of the eurozone are forecast to decline by 0.5% this year, while the uk and the us are set for a slowdown in growth, according to the latest data from the international monetary fund. meanwhile, china is doing all it can to ensure its economy does not overheat and instead undergoes a soft landing. the other side of rising oil prices is an increase in costs for firms and consumers, which would exacerbate a slowdown. there are also political risks this year, with elections in france and the us for a start. tensions with iran over its nuclear programme are more likely to escalate than die down. so looking ahead, it is difficult to see the justification for the current stock market strength to continue. strategists at morgan stanley summed it up in a report this week: "equities, bonds, gold and oil all rose in value in january. this is a rare occurrence and in recent years has tended to be a good sell signal for stocks. against a backdrop of high investor optimism, the market is vulnerable to any deterioration in macro-economic news flow." equities currently offer decent value although that does not mean they could not become cheaper. the uk market yields around the same (3.3%) as 25-year gilts but dividends tend to grow over time, outpacing inflation. the earnings yield is attractive given the level of interest rates and relative to its own history. if the markets (domestic and global) to which uk companies are exposed grow at 2% a year, investors would enjoy a 5.3% real return, versus zero for gilts. in stressful times, equities can become much cheaper but such phases have proved temporary. at present, equities look priced to give investors good real returns over time but you need to know your own reaction to outbreaks of volatility and adjust the amount you invest in shares or stagger your investment to reduce the timing risk. i'll be honest: i really want to take part in the current rally to claw back a bit more of the losses i'm sitting on from my ill-fated investments of 2011. but i fear it's too late for me to get involved as all the low-hanging fruit has already been gobbled up, what with the ftse close to 6,000. my reader-pundits appear to agree. snoekie, a valued commentator, told me that he is still sitting on his hands, as the market is, "at the moment, imo, well overcooking in a number of sectors". another reader warned: the us is experiencing a "false dawn"; china has "slammed the brakes on" its economy; europe's problems are far from over; and a war could erupt in the middle east at any moment. so what's a private investor with a mere £2,000 left in cash to do? i could buy an etf to "short sell" the ftse and make money when it falls. such funds have had a tough time of late, but did very well last summer, when markets fell off a cliff … and into a cauldron of vomit. when that happens this time around, i'll be dry as a bone. despite everything, company profits have increased in recent years although equity valuations have fallen. this is partly because big investors have been forced to "de-risk" their portfolios. so while savers are being given a rough deal as the result of zero interest rates, government policy in other areas maybe presenting a good long-term opportunity to invest. professionals will point to any number of risks. economic growth may fall and companies could stop making profits. the political situation in north africa and the middle east remains a concern, elections in france and greece and the latest bailout deal will delay addressing some of the root causes of the eurozone crisis. while the us presidential election in november will put off the cuts that their fiscal deficit demands. these risks are already "known" and to some extent reflected in current share prices. there will always be risk associated with equity investment and valuations reflect that. when will other investors realise the opportunity? probably too late, but for those who are prepared to look through the current difficulties they can take comfort from the fact that equities are cheap by historic standards and there is a reasonable reward – in the form of a dividend – for investing in our future. the price/earnings ratio for the uk market stands at 10, very low by past standards, and compares extremely well versus other asset classes such as government bonds. typically though, attractive valuations in themselves are insufficient to drive prices higher. rather it is the presence of an improving economic backdrop and liquidity being injected into the market that leads us to view the current rally as being more durable. economist forecasts for 2012 had become increasingly pessimistic and now look to have reached a point where they may be too cautious. certainly, the us economy is seeing a widespread recovery and while not wishing to overplay the situation there are pockets of more positive news coming out of the uk. while these remain challenging times for investors, the combination of attractive valuations, better economic news and liquidity, combined with the robust financial positions of many uk corporates, leads us to be positive for the months ahead.
dow jones breaks through 13,000 for first time since banking crisis   the average of 30 major us stocks was propelled higher after being closed for monday's president day holiday, following a run of better than expected company results and economic data. after laura bush, the wife of the former us president, rang the opening bell, the dow jones crept up through 13,000 to reach 13,005 – but had edged back down to 12,965 as the us markets closed. louise cooper, markets analyst at bgc partners, said: "there are some very strong profit margins at us companies and a lot of investors appear to be bored with the eurozone." she added, though, that she felt the markets were not poised for a major rally and noted the trading volumes had been light across the market. there were, however, signs of anxiety in other markets as the price of brent crude, which is used to price foreign oil imported into the us, rose by 55 cents to $120.60 amid heightened political tensions between iran – which is subject to an import embargo in the eu from july – and israel. iran retaliated on sunday by saying it would not sell oil to companies in the uk or france and while it was regarded more as politically posturing – as neither country imports oil from iran – it knocked sentiment. vitol, the world's leading oil trader, warned that the crude price could top $150 a barrel. ian taylor, vitol's chief executive, told reuters: "the iranians now want the price as high as possible as they've got less volume to sell." the price rise helps to compensate for the loss of revenue. with the euro weakening, the price of oil in euros is touching record levels but priced in dollars, the currency most closely watched, it is currently below the record of $147 it hit in 2008. cooper pointed out that trading in the options market indicates there is an expectation that oil prices will rise. so-called open interest, which measures the positions that have not been closed at the end of every trading day, was higher than usual and targeted on contracts that reflect expectations of the oil price on 15 march. while the dow jones index was reaching levels last seen four years ago, britain's top share index the ftse 100 fell back 17 points to end at 5928, retreating from a seven-month closing high it reached on monday. the ftse breached 6000 last year.
is the dow jones's rally just wishful thinking? the short answer, perhaps, is that the eurozone's woes had cast such gloom last year that even the appearance of a few rays of sunlight makes the relative position seem much brighter. and it's true that the us economy has delivered cheerful news of late – jobs are being created, industrial production is up and the housing market seems to be stabilising. for a fund manager mindful of his career prospects, it's dangerous to miss a turn in the market: if you sat out the 15% rally in share prices since last autumn, you certainly don't want to miss the next 15%. that's how momentum in markets can be generated. sceptics, however, smell a potentially disastrous faith in central bankers' ability to create new asset bubbles. after all, even the european central bank won't be able indefinitely to give banks a helping hand via its three-year long-term refinancing operation (essentially cheap loans pledged against any old collateral). bob janjuah, nomura's bearish fixed-income strategist, is worried. "the number of clients who tell me that they know they are being forced into playing a game that will end in disaster, but who feel they have to play along and who hope they will get out before it turns, is a depressingly familiar old tale," he says. you can see his point: this market rally carries a strong whiff of hopeful thinking.
dow jones breaks through 13,000 barrier for first time since 2008 crash the dow passed 13,000 about two hours into the trading day, then quickly dropped back. its last time above 13,000 during a trading day was may 20, 2008, four months before the lehman brothers investment bank went under. just after 11.30am est, the dow was up 43 points at 12,993. in other trading, the standard & poor's 500 was up five points at 1,366. the nasdaq composite index was up 10 points at 2,962. under the bailout deal, greece will get €130bn, or about $172bn, from other european nations and the international monetary fund. it will also owe €107bn less to investors who own its government bonds. after months of the talks crawling along, and vague headlines yanking the market up and down, the conclusion was almost anticlimactic, with an agreement already expected by the markets. european markets fell after the greece deal was announced. stocks were down almost 4% in greece, a little more than 1% in spain and less than 1% in france and britain. but the euro rose slightly at $1.32, which could be seen as a sign of confidence in european markets. investors noted that greece remains in deep recession. its private-sector investors were also forced to take a 53.5% loss on the face value of their bonds, which could discourage future investment. the us stock market has climbed steadily this year, primarily because of optimism about the economy. high gasoline prices are emerging as a chief concern for the economic recovery for the rest of the year, though. a gallon of regular costs $3.57 on average, 40¢ more than a year ago and the highest on record for this time of year. with tension building over iran's nuclear ambitions, iran has halted oil exports to britain and france and threatened to stop shipping to other european countries. on tuesday, us markets enjoyed strong earnings reports from several big-name companies, including home depot and dollar thrifty. the exception was walmart, which reported a 15% drop in quarterly profits. overall, though, investors seemed comfortable moving money into the higher-risk stock market and out of safer investments like government bonds. the yield on the government's benchmark 10-year treasury note rose to 2.05% from 2.01% on friday, a sign that fewer investors wanted the bonds.
german stock exchange celebrates carnival – in pictures photograph: daniel roland/afp/getty images photograph: kai pfaffenbach/reuters photograph: kai pfaffenbach/reuters photograph: daniel roland/afp/getty images photograph: kai pfaffenbach/reuters photograph: kai pfaffenbach/reuters photograph: arne dedert/epa carnival is the grandest holiday in brazil, annually drawing millions in celebrations culminating on fat tuesday before the start of the catholic season of lent lisbon's small but vibrant forró de lampião carnival draws enthusiasts from all over the world and is a chance to enjoy this brazilan music and dance closer to home
10 ways to improve the return on your savings with the third anniversary of the 0.5% base rate coming up in march, and predictions that interest rates won't rise for another two or even three years, it is hardly surprising that squeezed savers are seeking out new homes for their cash. but what are the risks involved when savers leave the comfort of a standard deposit account? here we highlight the many different ways that savers can receive more on their savings – as well as the risks involved. how about premium bonds, and the £1m monthly prize they offer? or the dividends worth as much as 8% a year on shares bought direct from a stockbroker? or an equity income fund, where the fund manager buys lots of shares to diversify the risk, and which pay an income of around 4%-4.5% a year. or perhaps you could join one of the growing "peer-to-peer" websites where you cut out the bank and lend your money directly to individuals and businesses. interest rates paid to investors average 6% to 8%, and have gone as high as 11%. but all these options involve taking risk. corporate bonds, such as those of enterprise inns or aviva, are only as good as the company that stands behind them. if enterprise inns goes bust, savers could see their capital wiped out. here are 10 ways you might consider to make your money go further. click through or scroll down for the returns, advantages and disadvantages of each option: the big risk is whether the company will go bust and default on its payments. you can buy a bond when it is first issued by the company, or in the market, where they are traded like shares. currently, one of the highest yielders among big british companies with "retail" bonds is enterprise inns, which is yielding 11% on a bond maturing in six years and 10 months. but the debt-laden pub group has seen its shares halve over the past year, and the business is under intense pressure, so that 11% may not be secure. further down the risk scale, an aviva bond pays 8.23% a year, but it's another 14 years and nine months before it matures. a good bet might be lloyds bank, which has a bond maturing in three years and one month, which is paying 5.5% a year. less of a bet might be the italian government – you can buy its (sterling-denominated) bonds and earn 7% interest. but the tie-in is 16 years. you're betting on mario monti making sure the italians pay up. there are two types of cash isa – those that pay a variable rate and those that are fixed. the fixed ones pay a higher interest rate, but if you take your money out before the fixed term, you may suffer penalties. currently the best rate on a standard cash isa is from nationwide building society, at 3.1%, although it's an online only deal, and the minimum deposit is £1,000. after that cheshire bs pays 3.06%, newcastle bs and the aa pay 3.05%, while ing and m&s are on 3%. always look out for a fall in headline rates – nationwide promises 3.1% only until 31 january 2013. if you're happy to lock your money away, the best deals fixed over one year are aldermore at 3.35%, with metro bank and leeds bs at 3.25%. the halifax and the post office are paying 3.7% respectively on their two- and three-year fixed rate isas. natwest is offering the highest fixed interest rates if you transfer from other providers. the bank will pay preferential rates to those switching isa providers – 3.35% if they lock in for one year, 3.9% for two years and 4.2% for three years. minimum transfer is £1,000 and applications must be received by 29 february. the capital is guaranteed (and backed by the fscs) and the rates can be attractive. the risk is that you need the money before the bond matures. cashing in a bond early usually results in stiff penalties. the longer you are willing to lock the money away, the better rate you receive. currently, the best short-term fixed rate bonds, where you can't access the money for a year, come from first save (3.6%), aldermore (3.55%) and investec (3.55%). if you prefer a better-known name, bank of scotland has a one-year bond at 3.3% on a minimum deposit of £2,000. once you move to a three-year lock-in, the rates improve markedly. clydesdale bank and yorkshire bank (both part of the same group) have a three-year fixed-rate bond paying 4.1%, available in branch and online, while both saga and halifax have online-only deals paying 4% for three years. other long-term fixed-rate deals include the aa (4.6%), saga (4.5%) and state bank of india (4.5%). if you have already used up your cash isa allowance, and you don't want to lock the rest of your money away in a fixed-rate bond, another alternative is the investec high 5 and high 10 accounts. these promise to pay the average interest rate of the top five and top ten best-buy accounts as published by moneyfacts, so your account should always pay a good rate. currently, it would give you a rate of either 3.17% or 3.11%. the catch? you need to deposit a minimum of £25,000. nationwide has a champion saver account that aggregates the five highest branch-based interest rates from a group of eight high street banks, but currently that only results in an interest rate of 2.01%. this week moody's put the uk government on "negative outlook" ahead of a possible downgrade, but we're still a long way off greece's "junk" rating. if you sell before maturity, you may not get back all your capital. gilts are bought and sold on the stock market where their price can go up or down. most fund managers think that gilts are currently overpriced. in the ftse 100, the highest paying company is currently rsa, yielding 8%, with insurers aviva (7.2%) and standard life (5.7%) also close to the top. at the other end of the table, next yields 2.9%, while bp is on 4.2%. but these are a snapshots – there is no guarantee that if you buy rsa today, you will receive a dividend worth 8%. the figure is worked out on the current share price compared with the last dividend. there are no guarantees about the next dividend. currently the top-performing uk equity income fund, unicorn uk income, is up 129% over three years and is yielding 4.5%. henderson, jo hambro, standard life and aberdeen all have strongly performing uk equity income funds. but the variation is huge – at the other end of the table, newton higher income has risen by only 29.5%, although it yields 6.8%. the biggest income fund in britain is invesco perpetual income and its near-mirror high income fund, run by neil woodford, with £20bn under management. they are yielding around 3.8%, and after slipping down the performance tables are now riding high again, respectively ranked second and third out of 104 funds in the sector. don't limit yourself to uk shares. there are a growing number of funds that aim for a 3-4% income from shares overseas, even in asia, traditionally a growth rather than income market. for example, fidelity recently launched a global dividend fund which is targeting an income yield of around 4% a year. or buy a fund-of-funds which diversifies even more by investing in lots of different portfolios (although watch out for fees). for example, hsbc's world selection income portfolio brings together a range of more than 20 corporate bond and equity income funds under one umbrella. many financial advisers recommend equity income funds even if you do not actually need to take the income each year, and choose instead to accumulate it within the fund. the total return on an equity income fund often outstrips the total return on growth funds. what they don't tend to recommend are investment trusts, which don't pay them commission. yet there are plenty of trusts with an income-orientation, such as acorn income, which has given a capital return of 210% in the past three years and currently yields 3.7%. funding circle applies the same idea as zopa, but lends your money to businesses rather than individuals, with £24m committed since its launch in 2010. its average gross yield is 8.3%, default rate around 0.2%. the site projects a more cautious bad debt rate of 0.6% to 3.3%. it deducts a 1% fee. a-rated customers pay around 7.3%; c customers 9.4%.
